The Secret Agent The scent and smoke and sweat of a casino are nauseating at three in the morning. Then the soulerosion produced by high gambling— a compost of greed and fear and nervous tension — becomes unbearable, and the senses awake and revolt from it. James Bond suddenly knew that he was tired. He always knew when his body or his mind had had enough, and he always acted on the knowledge. This helped him to avoid staleness and the sensual bluntness that breeds mistakes. He shifted himself unobtrusively away from the roulette he had been playing and went to stand for a moment at the brass rail which surrounded breast-high the top table in the salle privee. Le Chiffre was : still playing and still, apparently, winning. There was an untidy pile of flecked hundredmille plaques in front of him. In the shadow of his thick left arm there nestled a discreet stack of the big yellow ones worth half a million francs each. Bond -watched the curious, impressive profile for a time, and then he shrugged his shoulders to lighten his thoughts and moved away. The barrier surrounding the caisse comes as high as your chin, and the caissier, who is generally nothing more than a minor bank clerk, sits on a stool and dips into his piles of notes and plaques. These are ranged on shelves. They are on a level, behind the protecting barrier* with your groin. The caissier has a cosh and a gun to protect him, and to heave over the barrier and steal some notes and then vault back and get out of the Casino through the passages and doors would be impossible. And the caissiers generally work in pairs. Bond reflected on the problem as he collected the sheaf of hundred-thousand and then the sheaves of tenthousand-franc notes. With another part of his mind, he had a vision of tomorrow's regular morning meeting of the Casino committee. 'Monsieur Le Chiffre made two million. He played his usual game. Miss Fairchild made a million an hour and then left. She executed\hree bancos of Monsieur Le Chiffre within an hour and then left. She played with coolness. Monsieur le Vicomte de Villorin made one million two at roulette. He was playing the maximum on the first and last dozens. He was lucky. Then the Englishman, Mister Bond, increased his winnings to exactly three million over the two days. He was playing a progressive system on red at table five. Duclos, the chef de partie, has the details. It seems that he is persevering and pays in maximums. He has luck. His nerves seem good. On the soiree, the chemin-de-fer won x, the baccarat won.y and the roulette won z. The boule, which was again badly frequented, still makes its expenses.' 'Merci, Monsieur Xavier. ' 'Merci, Monsieur le President.' Or something like that, thought Bond as he pushed his way through the swing doors of the salle privee and nodded to the bored man in evening clothes whose job it is to bar your entry and your exit and the electric footswitch which can lock the door at any hint of trouble. And the Casino committee 'would balance its books and break up to its homes or cafSs for lunch. As for robbing the caisse, in which Bond himself was not personally concerned, but only interested, hereflected that it would take ten good men, that they would certainly have to kill one or two employees, and that anyway you probably couldn't find ten non-squeal killers in France, or in any other country for the matter of that. As he gave a thousand francs to the 'vestiaire' and walked down the steps of the Casino, Bond made up his mind that Le Chiffre would in no circumstances try to rob the caisse; and he put the contingency out of his mind. Instead he explored his present physical sensations. He felt the dry, uncomfortable gravel under his evening shoes, the bad ( harsh taste in his mouth, and the slight sweat under his arms. He could feel his eyes filling their sockets. The front of his face, his nose and antrum, were congested. He breathed the sweet night air deeply and focused his senses and his wits. He wanted to know if anyone had searched his room since he had left it before dinner. . He walked across the broad boulevard and through the gardens to the Hotel Splendide. He smiled at the concierge who gave him his key— No. on the first floor — and took the cable. It was from Jamaica and read:  KINGSTON J A XXXX XXXXXX XXXX XXX BOND SPLENDIDE ROYALE-LES-EAUX SEINE INFERIEURE HAVANACIGAR PRODUCTION ALL CUBAN FACTORIES 1915 TEN MILLION REPEAT TEN MILLION STOP HOPE THIS FIGURE YOU REQUIRE REGARDS DASILVA  This meant that ten million francs was on the way to him. It was the reply to a request Bond had sent that afternoon through Paris to his headquarters in London asking for more funds. Paris had spoken to London where Clements, the head of Bond's department, had spoken to M. who had smiled wryly and told 'The Broker' to fix it with the Treasury. Bond had once worked in Jamaica, and his cover on the Royale assignment was that of a very rich client of Messrs. Caffery, the principal import and export firm of Jamaica. So he was being controlled through Jamaica, through a taciturn man who was head of the picture desk on the Daily Gleaner, the famous newspaper of the Caribbean. This man on the Gleaner, whose name was.Fawcett, had been bookkeeper for one of the leading turtlefisheries on the Cayman Islands. One of the men from the Caymans who had volunteered on the outbreak of war, he had ended up as a Paymaster's clerk in a small naval intelligence organization in Malta. At the end of the war, when, with a heavy heart, he was about to return to the Caymans, he was spotted by the section of the Secret Service concerned with the Caribbean. He was strenuously trained in photography and in some other arts and, with the quiet connivance of an influential man in Jamaica, found his way to the picture desk of the Gleaner. In the intervals between sifting photographs submitted by the great agencies— Keystone, Wide World, Universal, I.N.P., and Reuter-Photo — he would get peremptory instructions by telephone from a man he had never met to carry out certain simple operations requiring nothing but absolute discretion, speed, and accuracy. For these occasional services he received twenty pounds a month paid into his account with the Royal Bank of Canada by a fictitious relative in England. Fawcett's present assignment was to relay immediately to Bond, full rates, the text of messages which he received at home by telephone from his anonymous contact. He had been told by this contact that nothing he would be asked to send would arouse the suspicion of the Jamaican post office. So he was not surprised to find himself suddenly appointed string correspondent for the 'Maritime Press and Photo Agency,' with presscollect facilities to France and England, on a further monthly retainer of ten pounds. He felt secure and, encouraged, had visions of a B.E.M. and made the first payment on a Morris Minor. He also bought a green eyeshade which he had long coveted, and which helped him to impose his personality on the picture desk. , Some of this background to his cable passed through Bond's mind. He was used to oblique control and rather liked it. He felt it featherbedded him a little, allowed him to give or take an hour or. two in his communications with M. He knew that this was probably a fallacy, that probably there was another member of the Service at Royale-les-Eaux who was reporting independently, but it did give the illusion that he wasn't only miles across the Channel from that deadly office building near Regent's Park, being watched and judged by those few cold brains that made the whole show work. Just as Fawcett, the Cayman Islander in Kingston, knew that if he bought that Morris Minor outright instead of signing the hire-purchase agreement, someone in London would probably know and want to know where the money had come from. Bond read the cable twice. He tore a telegraph form off the; pad on the desk (why give them carbon copies?) and wrote his reply in capital letters: THANKS INFORMATION SHOULD SUFFICE BOND. He handed this to the concierge and put the cable signed 'Dasilva' in his pocket. The employers (if any) of the concierge could bribe a copy out of the local post office, if the concierge hadn't already steamed the envelope open or read the cable upside down in Bond's hands. He took his key and said good night and turned to the stairs, shaking his head at the liftman. Bond knew what an obliging danger-signal a lift could be. He didn't expect anyone to be moving on the first floor, but he preferred to be prudent. Walking quietly up on the balls of his feet, he regretted the hubris of his reply to M. via Jamaica. As a gambler he knew it was a mistake to rely on too small a capital. Anyway, M. probably wouldn't let him have any more. He shrugged his shoulders and turned off the stairs into the corridor and walked softly to the door of his room. Bond knew exactly where the switch was, and it was with one flow of motion that he stood on the threshold with the door full open, the light on and a gun in his hand. The safe, empty room sneered at him. He ignored the half-open door of the bathroom and, after locking himself in, he turned up the bed-light and the mirrorlight and threw his gun on the settee beside the window. Then he bent down and inspected one of his own black hairs which still lay undisturbed where he had left it before dinner, wedged into the drawer of the writingdesk. Next he examined a faint trace of talcum powder on the inner rim of the porcelain handle of the clothes cupboard. It appeared immaculate. He went into the bathroom, lifted the cover of the lavatory cistern and verified the level of the water against a small scratch on the copper ball-cock. Doing alL this, inspecting these minute burglaralarms, did not make him feel foolish or self-conscious. He was a secret agent, and still alive thanks to his exact attention to the detail of his profession. Routine precautions were to him no more unreasonable than they would be to a deep-sea diver or a test pilot, or to any man earning danger-money. Satisfied that his room had not been searched while he was at the Casino, Bond undressed and took a cold shower. Then he lit his seventieth cigarette of the day and sat down at the writing-table with the thick wad of his stake money and winnings beside him and entered some figures in a small notebook. Over the two days' play, he was up exactly three million francs. In London he had been issued with ten million, and he had asked London for a further ten. With this on its way to the local branch of the Credit Lyonnais, his working capital amounted to twenty-three million francs, or some twenty-three thousand pounds. For a few moments Bond sat motionless, gazing out of the "window across the dark sea; then he shoved the bundle of banknotes under the pillow of the ornate single bed, cleaned his teeth, turned out the lights and climbed with relief between the harsh French sheets. For ten minutes he lay on his left side reflecting on the events of the day. Then he turned over and focused his mind towards the tunnel of sleep. His last action was to slip his right hand under the pillow until it rested under the butt of the .38 Colt Police Positive with the sawn barrel. Then he slept, and . with the warmth and humour of his eyes extinguished his features relapsed into a taciturn mask, ironical, brutal, and cold.  Dossier for M.  Two weeks before, this memorandum had gone from Station S. of the Secret Service to M., who was then and is today head of this adjunct to the British defence ministries: To: M. From: Head of S. Subject: A project for the destruction of Monsieur Le Chiffre (alias 'The Number,' 'Herr Hummer,' 'Herr Ziffer,' etc.), one of the Opposition's chief agents in France and undercover Paymaster of the 'Syndicat des Ouvriers d' Alsace,' the communist-controlled trade union in the heavy and transport industries of Alsace and, as we know, an important fifth column in the event of war with Redland. Documentation: Head of Archives' biography of Le Chiffre is attached at Appendix A. Also, Appendix B, a note on SMERSH. We have been feeling for some time that Le Chiffre is getting into deep water. In nearly all respects he is an admirable agent of the U.S.S.R.j but his gross physical habits and predilections are an Achilles heel of which we have been able to take advantage from time to time, and one of his mistresses is a Eurasian (No. 1860) controlled by Station F., who has recently been able to obtain some insight into his private affairs. Briefly, it seems that Le Chiffre is on the brink of a financial crisis. Certain straws in the wind were noticed by 1860 — some discreet sales of jewellery, the disposal of a villa at Antibes, and a general tendency to check the loose spending which had always been a feature of his way of life. Further inquiries were made with the help of our friends of the Deuxieme Bureau (with whom we have been working jointly on this case) and a curious story has come to light. In January 1946 Le Chiffre bought control of a chain of brothels, known as the 'Cordon Jaune,' operating in Normandy and Brittany. He was foolish enough to employ for this purpose some fifty million francs of the moneys entrusted to him by Leningrad Section III for the financing of S.O.D.A., the trade union mentioned above. Normally the Cordon Jaune would have proved a most excellent investment; and it is possible that Le Chiffre was motivated more by a desire to increase his union funds than by the hope of lining his own pocket by speculating with his employers' money. However that may be, it is clear that he could have found many investments more savoury than prostitution, if he had not been tempted by the by-product of unlimited women for his personal use. Fate rebuked him with terrifying swiftness. Barely three months later, on the 13th April, there was passed in France Law No. 46685 entitled Loi Tendant a la Fermeture des Maisons de Tolerance et au Renforcement de la Lutte cohtre le Proxenitisme. (When M. came to this sentence he grunted and pressed a switch on the intercom. 'Head of S?' 'Sir.' 'What the hell does this word mean? ' He spelt it out. 'Pimping, sir. 'This is not the Berlitz School of Languages, Head of S. If you want to show off your knowledge of foreign jawbreakers, be good enough to provide a crib. Better still, write in English.' 'Sorry, sir.' M. released the switch and turned back to the memorandum.) This law (he read), known popularly as 'La Loi Marthe Richard,' closing all houses of illfame and forbidding the sale of pornographic books and films, knocked the bottom out of his investment almost overnight, and suddenly Le Chiffre was faced with a serious deficit in his union funds. In desperation he turned his open houses into 'maisons de passe' where clandestine rendezvous could be arranged on the border-line of the law, and he continued to operate one or two 'cinemas bleus' underground; but these shifts in no way served to cover his overheads, and all attempts to sell his investment, even at a heavy loss, failed dismally. Meanwhile the Police des Moeurs were on his trail, and in a short while twenty or more of his establishments were closed down. The police were, of course, only interested in this man as a big-time brothel-keeper, and it was not until we expressed an interest in his finances that the Deuxieme Bureau unearthed the parallel dossier which was running with their colleagues of the police department. The significance of the situation became apparent to us and to our French friends, and, in the past few months, a veritable rat-hunt has been operated by the police after the establishments of the Cordon Jaune, with the result that today nothing remains of Le Chiffre's original investment, and any routine inquiry would reveal a deficit of around fifty million francs in the tradeunion funds of which he is the treasurer and paymaster. It does not seem that the suspicions of Leningrad have been aroused yet; but, unfortunately for Le Chiffre, it is possible that at any rate SMERSH is on the scent. Last week a highgrade source of Station P. reported that a senior official of the efficient organ of Soviet vengeance had left Warsaw for Strasbourg via the Eastern sector of Berlin. There is no confirmation of this report from the Deuxieme Bureau, nor from the authorities in Strasbourg (who are reliable and thorough) and there is also no news from Le Chiffre's headquarters there, which we have well covered by a double agent (in addition to 1860). If Le Chiffre knew that SMERSH was on his tail or that they had the smallest suspicion of him, he would have no alternative to committing suicide or attempting to escape; but his present plans suggest that, while he is certainly desperate, he does not yet realize that his life may be at stake. It is these rather spectacular plans of his that have suggested to us a counter-operation which, though risky and unconventional, we submit at the end of this memorandum with confidence. In brief, Le Chiffre plans, we believe, to follow the example of most other desperate till-robbers and make good the deficit in his accounts by gambling. The 'Bourse' is too slow. So are the various illicit traffics in drugs, or rare medicines, such as aureoand streptomycin and cortisone. No race tracks could carry the sort of stakes he will have to play; and, if he won, he would more likely be killed than paid off . In any case, we know that he has withdrawn the final twenty-five million francs from the treasury of his union, and that he has taken a small villa in the neighbourhood of Royale-les-Eaux, just north of Dieppe, for a week from a fortnight tomorrow. Now, it is expected that the Casino at Royale will see the highest gambling in Europe this summer. In an effort to wrest the big money from Deauville and Le Touquet, the Soci6te des Bains de Mers de Royale have leased the baccarat and the two top chemin-de-fer tables to the Mahomet Ali Syndicate, a group of emigre' Egyptian bankers and businessmen with, it is said, a call on certain royal funds, who have for years been trying to cut in on the profits of Zographos and his Greek associates resulting from their monopoly of the highest French baccarat banks. With the help of discreet publicity, a considerable number of the biggest operators in America and Europe have been encouraged to book at Royale this summer and it seems possible that this old-fashioned watering-place will regain some of its Victorian renown. Be that as it may, it is here that Le Chiffre will, we are confident, endeavour on or after June to make a profit at baccarat of fifty million francs on a working capital of twentyfive million. (And, incidentally, save his life.) Proposed Counter-operation It would be greatly in the interests of this country and of the other nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization that this powerful Soviet agent should be ridiculed and destroyed, that his communist trade union should be bankrupted and brought into disrepute, and that this potential fifth column, with a strength of 50,000, capable in time of war of controlling a wide sector of France's northern frontier, should lose faith and cohesion. All this would result if Le Chiffre could be defeated at the tables. (N.B. Assassination is pointless. Leningrad would quickly cover up his defalcations and make him into a martyr.) We therefore recommend that the finest gambler available to the Service should be given the necessary funds and endeavour to outgamble this man. The risks are obvious, and the possible loss to the Secret funds is high; but other operations on which large sums have been hazarded have had fewer chances of success, often for a smaller objective. If the decision is unfavourable, the only alternative would be to place our information and our recommendations in the hands of the Deuxieme Bureau or of our American colleagues of the Combined Intelligence Agency in Washington. Both of these organizations would doubtless be delighted to take over the scheme. Signed: S.  Appendix A. Name: Le Chiffre.  Aliases: Variations on the words 'cipher' or 'number' in different languages; e.g., 'Herr Ziffer.' Origin: Unknown. First encountered as a displaced person, inmate of Dachau D.P. camp in the U.S. Zone of Germany, June, 1945. Apparently suffering from amnesia and paralysis of vocal cords (? both feigned). Dumbness succumbed to therapy, but subject continued to claim total loss of memory except associations with Alsace Lorraine and Strasbourg whither he was transferred in September, 1945, on Stateless Passport No. 304596. Adopted the name 'Le Chiffre' ('since I am only a number on a passport'). No Christian names. Age: About 45. Description: Height ft. in. Weight stone. Complexion very pale. Clean-shaven. Hair redbrown, 'en brosse.' Eyes very dark brown with whites showing all round iris. Small, rather feminine mouth. False teeth of expensive quality. Ears small, with large lobes, indicating some Jewish blood. Hands small, well-tended, hirsute. Feet small. Racially, subject is probably a mixture of Mediterranean with Prussian or Polish strains. Dresses well and meticulously, generally in dark double-breasted suits. Smokes incessantly Caporals, using a denicotinizing holder. At frequent intervals inhales from benzedrine inhaler. Voice soft and even. Bilingual in French and English. Good German. Traces of Marseillais accent. Smiles infrequently. Does not laugh. Habits: Mostly expensive, but discreet. Large sexual appetites. Flagellant. Expert driver of fast cars. Adept with small arms and other forms of personal combat, including knives. Carries three Eversharp razor blades, in hatband, heel of left shoe, and cigarette case. Knowledge of accountancy and mathematics. Fine gambler. Always accompanied by two armed guards, well-dressed, one French, one German (details available). Comment: A formidable and dangerous agent of the U.S.S.R., controlled by Leningrad Section III through Paris. Signed: Archivist. Appendix B. Subject: smersh Sources: Own archives and scanty material made available by DeuxiSme Bureau and C.I.A. Washington. Smersh is a conjunction of two Russian words: 'Smyert Shpionam,' meaning roughly: 'Death to Spies.' Ranks above MW.D. (formerly N.K.V.D.) and is believed to come under the personal direction of Beria. Headquarters: Leningrad (substation at Moscow). Its task is the elimination of all forms of treachery and back-sliding within the various branches of the Soviet Secret Service and Secret Police at home and abroad. It is the most powerful and feared organization in the U.S.S.R. and is popularly believed never to have failed in a mission of vengeance. It is thought that SMERSH was responsible for the assassination of Trotsky in Mexico (22 August 1940) and may indeed have made its name with this successful murder after attempts by other Russian individuals and organizations had failed. SMERSH was next heard of when Hitler attacked Russia. It was then rapidly expanded to cope with treachery and double agents during the retreat of the Soviet forces in 1941. At that time it worked as an execution squad for the N.K.V.D., and its present selective mission was not so clearly defined. The organization itself was thoroughly purged after the war and is now believed to consist of only a few hundred operatives of very high quality divided into five sections: Department I: In , charge of counterintelligence among Soviet organizations at home and abroad. Department II: Operations, including executions. Department III: Administration and Finance. Department IV: Investigations and legal work. Personnel. Department V: Prosecutions: the section which passes final judgment on all victims. Only one SMERSH operative has come into our hands since the war: Goytchev, alias GarradJones. He shot Petchora, medical officer at the Yugoslav Embassy, in Hyde Park, August 1948. During interrogation he committed suicide by swallowing a coat-button of compressed potassium cyanide. He revealed nothing beyond his membership of SMERSH, of which he was arrogantly boastful-. We believe that the following British double agents were victims of SMERSH: Donovan, Harthrop-Vane, Elizabeth Dumont, Ventnor, Mace, Savarin. (For details see Morgue: Section Q.) ' Conclusion: Every effort should be made to improve our knowledge of this very powerful organization and destroy its operatives.  Number  Head of S. (the section of the Secret Service concerned with the Soviet Union) was so keen on his plan for the destruction of Le Chiffre, and it was basically his own plan, that he took the memorandum himself and went up to the top floor of the gloomy building overlooking Regent's Park and through the green baize door and along the corridor to the end room. He walked belligerently up to M.'s chief of staff, a young sapper who had earned his spurs as one of the secretariat to the Chiefs of Staff committee after having been wounded during a sabotage operation in 1944, and had kept his sense of humour in spite of . both experiences.* 'Now look here, Bill. I want to sell something to the Chief. Is this a good moment?' 'What do you think, Penny?' The Chief of Staff turned to M.'s private secretary, who shared the room with him. Miss Moneypenny would have been desirable but for her eyes, which were cool and direct and quizzical. 'Should be all right. He won a bit of a victory at the F.O. this morning and he's not. got anyone for the next half an hour.' She smiled encouragingly at Head of S., whom she liked for himself and for the importance of his section. 'Well, here's the dope, Bill.' He handed over the black folder with the red star which stood for Top Secret. 'And for God's sake look enthusiastic when you give it him. And tell him I'll wait here and read a good code-book while he's considering it. He may want some more details, and anyway I want to see you two don't pester him with anything else until he's finished. ' 'All right, sir.' The Chief of Staff pressed a switch and leant towards the intercom on his desk. 'Yes?' asked a quiet, flat voice. 'Head of S. has an urgent docket for you, sir. ' There was a pause. 'Bring it in,' said the voice; The Chief of Staff released the switch and stood up. 'Thanks, Bill. I'll be next door,' said Head of S. The Chief of Staff crossed his office and went through the double doors leading into M.'s room. In a moment he came out, and over the entrance a small blue light burned the warning that M. was not to be disturbed. Later, a triumphant Head of S. said to his Number Two: 'We nearly cooked ourselves with that last paragraph. He said it was subversion and blackmail. He got pretty sharp about it. Anyway, he approves. Says the idea's crazy but worth trying if the Treasury will play, and he thinks they will. He's going to tell them it's a better gamble than the money we're putting into deserting Russian colonels who turn double after a few months' "asylum" here. And he's longing to get at Le Chiffre, and anyway he's got the right man and wants to try him out on the job.' \ 'Who is it?' asked Number Two. ' One of the Double O's — I guess . He's tough, and M. thinks there may be trouble with those gunmen of Le Chiffre's. He must be pretty good with the cards, or he wouldn't have sat in the Casino in Monte Carlo for two months before the war watching that Roumanian team work their stuff with the invisible ink and the dark glasses. He and the Deuxieme bowled them out in the end, and turned in a million francs he had won at shemmy. Good money in those days. ' James Bond's interview with M'. had been short. 'What about it, Bond?' asked M. when Bond came back into his room after reading Head of S.'s memorandum and after gazing for ten minutes out of the waitingroom window at the distant trees in the park. Bond looked across the desk into the shrewd, clear eyes. 'It's very kind of you, sir, I'd like to do it. But I can't promise -to win. The odds at baccarat are the best after "trente et quarante" — evens except for the tiny "cagnotte" — but I might get a bad run against me and get cleaned out. Play's going to be pretty high— opening' go up to half a million, I should think.' Bond was stopped by the cold eyes. M. knew all this already, knew the odds at baccarat as well as Bond. That was his job — knowing the odds at everything, and knowing men, his own and the opposition's. Bond wished he had kept quiet about his misgivings. 'He can have a bad run too,' said M. 'You'll have plenty of capital. Up to twenty-five million, the same as him. We'll start you on ten and send you another ten when you've had a look round. You can make the extra five yourself.' He smiled. 'Go over a few days before the big game starts and get your hand in. Have a talk to Q. about rooms and trains, and any equipment you want. The Paymaster will fix the funds. I'm going to ask  NUMBER the Deuxieme to stand by. It's their territory, and as it is we shall be lucky if they don't kick up rough . I'll try and persuade them to send Mathis. You seemed to get on well with him in Monte Carlo on that other Casino job. And I'm going to tell Washington because of the N.A.T.O. angle. C.I. A. have got one or two good men at Fontainebleau with the joint intelligence chaps there. Anything else?' Bond shook his head. 'I'd certainly like to have Mathis, sir.' 'Well, we'll see. Try and bring it off. We're going to look pretty foolish if you don't. And watch out. This sounds an amusing job, but I don't think it's going to be. Le Chiffre is a good man. Well, best of luck.' 'Thank you, sir,' said Bond, and went to the door. 'Just a minute.' Bond turned. 'I think I'll keep you covered, Bond. Two heads are better than one and you'll need someone to run your communications. I'll think it over. They'll get in touch i with you at Royale. You needn't worry. It'll be someone good.' Bond would have preferred to work alone, but one didn't argue with M. He left the room hoping that the man they sent would be loyal to.him and neither stupid nor, worse still, ambitious.  'L'Ennemi Ecoute'  As, two weeks later, James Bond awoke in his room at the Hotel Splehdide, some of this history passed through his mind. He had arrived at Royale-les-Eaux in time for luncheon two days before. There had been no attempt to contact him, and there had been no flicker of curiosity when he had signed the register 'James Bond, Port Maria, Jamaica.' M. had expressed no interest in his cover. 'Once you start to make a set at Le Chiffre at the tables you'll have had it,' he said. 'But wear a cover that will stick with the general public. ' Bond knew Jamaica well, so he asked to be controlled from there and to pass as a Jamaican phantocrat whose father had made his pile in tobacco and sugar and who chose to play it away on the stock markets and in casinos. If inquiries were made, he would quote Charles Dasilva of Caffery's, Kingston, as his attorney. Charles would make the story stick. Bond had spent the last two afternoons and most of the nights at the Casino, playing complicated progression systems on the even chances at roulette. He made a high banco at chemin-de-fer whenever he heard one offered. If he lost, he would 'suivi' once and not chase it further if he lost the second time. In this way he had made some three million francs and had given his nerves and card-sense a thorough workout. He had got the geography of the Casino clear in his mind. Above all, he had been able to observe Le Chiffre at the tables and to note ruefully that he was a faultless and lucky gambler. Bond liked to make a good breakfast. After a cold shower, hesat at the writing-table in front of the window. He looked out at the beautiful day and consumed half a pint of iced orange juice, three scrambled eggs and bacon, and a double portion of coffee without sugar. He lit his first cigarette, a Balkan and Turkish mixture made for him by Morlands of Grosvenor Street, and watched the small waves lick the long seashore and the fishing fleet from Dieppe string out towards the June heat-haze followed by a paper-chase of herringgulls. He was lost in his thoughts when the telephone rang. It was the concierge announcing that a Director of Radio Stentor was waiting below with the wireless set he v had ordered from Paris. 'Of course,' said Bond. 'Send him up.' This was the cover fixed by the Deuxieme Bureau for their liaison man with Bond. Bond watched the door, hoping that it would be Mathis. When Mathis came in, a respectable businessman carrying a large square parcel by its leather handle, Bond smiled broadly and would have greeted him with warmth if Mathis had not frowned and held up his free hand after carefully closing the door. 'I have just arrived from Paris, monsieur, and here is the set you asked to have on approval — five valves, i. superhet, I think you call it in England, and you should be able to get most of the capitals of Europe from Royale. There are no mountains for forty miles in any direction.' 'It sounds all right,' said Bond, lifting his eyebrows at this mystery-making. Mathis paid no attention. He placed the set, which he had unwrapped, on the floor beside the unlit panel electric fire below the mantelpiece. 'It is just past eleven,' he said, 'and I see that the Compagnons de la Chanson should now be on the medium wave from Rome. They are touring Europe. Let us see what the reception is like. It should be a fair test.' He winked. Bond noticed that he had turned the volume on to full and that the red light indicating the long waveband was illuminated, though the set was still silent. Mathis fiddled at the back of the set. Suddenly an appalling roar of static filled the small room. Mathis gazed at the set for a few seconds with benevolence and then turned it off, and his voice was full of dismay. 'My dear monsieur — forgive me, please— badly tuned.' And he again bent to the dials. After a few adjustments the close harmony of the French came over the air, and Mathis walked up and clapped Bond very hard on the back and wrung his hand until Bond's fingers ached. Bond smiled back at him. 'Now what the hell?' he asked. 'My dear friend,' Mathis was delighted, 'you are blown, blown, blown. Up there,' he pointed at the ceiling, 'at this moment, either Monsieur Muntz or his alleged wife, allegedly bedridden with the grippe, is deafened, absolutely deafened, and I hope in agony.' He grinned with pleasure at Bond's frown of disbelief. Mathis sat down on the bed and ripped open a packet of Caporal with his thumbnail. Bond waited. Mathis was satisfied with the sensation his words had caused. He became serious. 'How it has happened, I don't know. They must have been on to you for several days before you arrived. The opposition is here in real strength. Above you is the Muntz family. He is German. She is from somewhere in Central Europe, perhaps a Czech. This is an oldfashioned hotel. There are disused chimneys behind these electric fires. Just here,' he pointed a few inches above the panel fire, 'is suspended a very powerful radio pick-up. The wires run up the chimney to behind the Muntzes' electric fire where there is an amplifier. In their room is a wire recorder and a pair of earphones on which the Muntzes listen in turn. That is why Madame Muntz has the grippe and takes all her meals in bed and why Monsieur Muntz has to be constantly at her side instead of enjoying the sunshine and the gambling of this delightful resort. 'Some of this we knew because in France we are very clever. The rest we confirmed by unscrewing your electric fire a few hours before you got here. ' Suspiciously Bond walked over and examined the screws which secured the panel to the wall. Their grooves showed minute scratches. 'Now it is time for a little more play-acting,' said Mathis. He walked over to the radio, which was still transmitting close harmony to its audience of three, and switched it off. 'Are you satisfied, monsieur?' he asked. 'You notice how clearly they come over. Are they not a wonderful team?' He made a winding motion with his right hand and raised his eyebrows. 'They are so good;' said Bond, 'that I would like to hear the rest of the programme.' He grinned at the thought of the angry glances which the Muntzes must be exchanging overhead. 'The machine itself seems splendid. Just what I was looking for to take back to Jamaica.' Mathis made a sarcastic grimace and switched back to the Rome programme. 'You and your Jamaica,' he said, and sat down again on the bed. Bond frowned at him. 'Well, it's no good crying over spilt milk,' he said. 'We didn't expect the cover to stick for long, but it's worrying that they bowled it out so soon.' He searched his mind in vain for a clue. Could the Russians have broken one of our ciphers? If so, he might just as well pack up and go home. He and his job would have been stripped naked. Mathis seemed to read his mind. 'It can't have been a cipher,' he said. 'Anyway, we told London at once, and they will have changed them. A pretty flap we caused, I can tell you.' He smiled with the satisfaction of a friendly rival. 'And now to business, before our good Compagnons run out of breath. 'First of all' — he inhaled a thick lungful of Caporal — 'you will be pleased with your Number Two. She is very beautiful (Bond frowned), very beautiful indeed.' Satisfied with Bond's reaction, Mathis continued: 'She has black hair, blue eyes, and splendid ... er . . . protuberances. Back and front,' he added. 'And she is a wireless expert which, though sexually less interesting, makes her a perfect employee of Radio Stentor and assistant to myself in my capacity as wireless salesman for this rich summer season down here.' He grinned. 'We are both staying in the hotel, and my assistant will thus be on hand in case your new radio breaks down. All new machines, even French ones, are apt to have teething troubles in the first day or two. And occasionally at night,' he added with an exaggerated wink. Bond was not amused. 'What the hell do they want to send me a woman for,' he said bitterly. 'Do they think this is a bloody picnic?' Mathis interrupted. 'Calm yourself, my dear James. She is as serious as you could wish and as cold as an icicle. She speaks French like a native and knows her job backwards. Her cover's perfect, and I have arranged for her to team up with you "quite smoothly. What is more natural than that you should pick up a pretty girl here? As a Jamaican millionaire/ he coughed respectfully, 'what with your hot blood and all, you would look naked without one.' Bond grunted dubiously. 'Any other surprises?' he asked suspiciously. ' Nothing very much,' answered Mathis. 'LeChiffre is installed in his villa. It's about ten miles down the coast road. He had his two guards with him. They look pretty capable fellows. One of them has been seen visiting a little pension in the town where three mysterious and rather subhuman characters checked in two days ago. They may be part of the team. Their papers are in order — stateless Czechs apparently — but one of our men says the language they talk in their room is Bulgarian. We don't see many of those around. They're mostly used against the Turks and the Yugoslavs. They're stupid, but obedient. The Russians use them for simple killings or as fall-guys for more complicated ones.' 'Thanks very much. Which is mine to be?' asked Bond. 'Anything else?' 'No. Come to the bar of the Hermitage before lunch. I'll fix the introduction. Ask her to dinner this evening. Then it will be natural for her to come into the Casino with you. I'll be there too, but in the background. I've got one or two good chaps, and we'll keep an eye on you. Oh, and there's an American called Leiter here, staying in the hotel. Felix Leiter. He's the C.I. A. chap from Fontainebleau. London told me to tell you. He looks okay. May come in useful. ' A torrent of Italian burst from the wireless set on the floor. Mathis switched it off and they exchanged some phrases about the set and about how Bond should pay for it. Then with effusive farewells and a final wink Mathis bowed himself out. Bond sat at the window and gathered his thoughts. Nothing that Mathis had told him was reassut^ng. He was completely blown and under really professional surveillance. An attempt might be made to put him away even before he had a chance to pit himself against Le Chiffre at the tables. The Russians had no stupid prejudices about murder. And then there was this pest of a girl. He sighed. Women were for recreation. On a job, they got in the;; way and fogged things up with sex and hurt feelings and all the emotional baggage they carried around. One had to look out for them and take care of them. 'Bitch,' said Bond, and then remembering the Muntzes, he said 'bitch' again more loudly and walked out of the room. . The Girl from Headquarters  It was twelve o'clock when Bond left the Splendide, and the clock on the mairie was stumbling through its midday carillon. There was a strong scent of pine and mimosa in the air, and the freshly watered gardens of the Casino opposite, interspersed with neat gravel parterres and paths, lent the scene a pretty formalism more appropriate to ballet than to melodrama. The sun shone, and there was a gaiety and sparkle in the air which seemed to promise well for the new era of fashion and prosperity for which the little seaside town, after many vicissitudes, was making its gallant bid. Royale-les-Eaux, which lies near the mouth of the Somme before the flat coast-line soars up from the beaches of southern Picardy to the Brittany cliffs which run on to Le Havre, had experienced much the same fortunes as Trouville. Royale (without the Eaux) also started as a small fishing-village, and its rise to fame as a fashionable watering-place during the Second Empire was as meteoric as that of Trouville. But as Deauville killed Trouville, so, after a long period of decline,; did Le Touquet kill Royale. At the turn pf the century, when things were going badly for the little seaside town and when the fashion was to combine pleasure with a 'cure,' a natural spring in the hills behind Royale was discovered to contain enough diluted sulphur to have a beneficent effect on the liver. Since all French people suffer from liver complaints, Royale quickly became Royale-les-Eaux, and Eau Royale, in a torpedo-shaped bottle, grafted itself demurely on to the tail of the mineral-water lists in hotels and restaurant cars. It did not long withstand the powerful combines of Vichy and Perrier and Vittel. There came a series of lawsuits; a number "of people lost a lot of money, and very soon its sale was again entirely local. Royale fell back on the takings from French and English families v during the summer, on its fishing-fleet in winter and on the crumbs which fell to its elegantly dilapidated Casino from the tables at Le Touquet. But there was something splendid about the Negresco baroque of the Casino Royale, a strong whiff of Victorian elegance and luxury, and in 1950 Royale caught, the fancy of a syndicate in Paris which disposed of large funds belonging to a group of expatriate Vichyites. Brighton had been revived since the war, and Nice. Nostalgia for more specious, golden times might be a source of revenue. The Casino was repainted in its original white and gilt, and the rooms decorated in the palest grey with wine-red carpets and curtains. Vast chandeliers were suspended from the ceilings. The gardens were spruced, and the fountains played again, and the two main hotels, the Splendide and the Hermitage, were prinked and furbished and restaffed. Even the small town and the vieux-port managed to fix welcoming smiles across their ravaged faces, and the main street became gay with the 'vitrines' of great Paris jewellers and couturiers, tempted down for a butterfly season by rent-free sites and lavish promises. Then the Mahomet Ali Syndicate was cajoled into starting a high game in the Casino and the Socie"te des Bains de Mer de Royale felt that now at last Le Touquet would have to yield up some of the treasure stolen over the years from its parent plage. Against the background of this luminous and sparkling stage Bond stood in the sunshine and felt his mission to be incongruous and remote and his dark profession an affront to his fellow actors. He shrugged away the momentary feeling of unease and walked round the back of his hotel and down the ramp to the garage. Before his rendezvous at the Hermitage he decided to take his car down the coast road and have a quick look at Le Chiffre's villa and then drive back by the inland road until it crossed the route nationale to Paris. Bond's car was his only personal hobby. One of the last of the 4-litre Bentleys with the supercharger by Amherst Villiers, he had bought it almost new in 1933 and had kept it in careful storage through the war. It was still serviced every year and, in London, a former Bentley mechanic, who worked in a garage near Bond's Chelsea flat, tended it with jealous care. Bond drove it hard and well and with an almost sensual pleasure. It was a battleship-grey convertible coupe, which really did convert, and it was capable of touring at ninety with thirty miles an hour in reserve. Bond eased the car out of the garage and up the ramp, and soon the loitering drumbeat of the two-inch exhaust was echoing down the tree-lined boulevard, through the crowded main street of the little town, and off through the sand dunes to the south. An hour later, Bond walked into the Hermitage bar and chose a table near one of the broad windows. The room was sumptuous with those overmasculine trappings which, together with briar pipes and wirehaired terriers, spell luxury in France. Everything was brass-studded leather and polished mahogany. The curtains and carpets were in royal blue! The waiters wore striped waistcoats and green baize aprons. Bond ordered an Americano and examined the sprinkling of overdressed customers, mostly from Paris he guessed, who sat talking with focus and vivacity, creating that theatrically clubbable atmosphere of Pheure de l'aperitif. The men were drinking inexhaustible quarter-bottles of champagne, the women dry Martinis. 'Moi, j'adore le "dry," ' a bright-faced girl at the next table said to her companion, too neat in his unseasonable tweeds, who gazed at her with moist brown eyes over the top of an expensive shooting-stick from Hermes, 'fait avec du Gordon's, bien entendu.' 'D'accord, Daisy. Mais tu sais, un zeste de citron Bond's eye was caught by the tall figure of Mathis on the pavement outside, his face turned in animation to a dark haired girl in grey. His arm was linked in hers, high Up above the elbow, and yet there was a lack of intimacy in their appearance, an ironical chill in the girl's profile, which made them seem two separate people rather than a couple. Bond waited for them to come through the street-door into the bar, but for appearances' sake continued to stare out of the window at the passers-by. 'But surely it is Monsieur Bond?' Mathis's Voice behind him was full of surprised delight. Bond, appropriately flustered, rose to his feet. 'Can it be that you are alone? Are you awaiting someone? May I present my colleague, Mademoiselle Lynd? My dear, this is the gentleman from Jamaica with whom I had the pleasure of doing business this morning.' Bond inclined himself with a reserved friendliness. 'It would be a great pleasure,' he addressed himself to the girl. 'I am alone. Would you both care to join me?' He pulled out a chair, and while they sat down he beckoned to a waiter and despite Mathis's expostulations insisted on ordering the drinks— a fine a l'eau for Mathis and a Bacardi for the girl. Mathis and Bond exchanged cheerful talk about the fine weather and the prospects of a revival in the forx tunes of Royale-les-Eaux. The girl sat silent. She accepted pne of Bond's cigarettes, examined it, and then smoked it appreciatively and without affectation, drawing the smoke deeply into her lungs with, a little sigh and then exhaling it casually through her lips and nostrils. Her movements were economical and precise with no trace of self-consciousness. Bond felt her presence strongly. While he and Mathis talked, he turned from time to time towards her, politely including her in the conversation, but adding up the impressions recorded by each glance. Her hair was very black, and she wore it cut square and low on the nape of the neck, framing her face to below the clear and beautiful line of her jaw. Although it was heavy and moved with the movements of her head, she did not constantly pat it back into place, but let it alone. Her eyes were wide apart and deep blue, and they gazed candidly back at Bond with a touch of ironical disinterest which, to his annoyance, he found he would like to shatter, roughly. Her skin was lightly suntanned and bore no trace of makeup except on her mouth, which was wide and sensual. Her bare arms and hands had a quality of repose, and the general impression Of restraint in her appearance and movements was carried even to her fingernails, which were unpainted and cut short. Round her neck she wore a plain gold chain of wide flat links, and on the fourth finger of the right hand a broad topaz ring. Her medium-length dress was of grey soie sauvage with a square-cut bodice, lasciviously tight across her fine breasts. The skirt Was closely pleated and flowered down from a narrow, but not^a thin, waist. She wore a three-inch, hand-stitched black belt. A hand-stitched black sabretache rested on  the chair beside her, together with a wide cartwheel hat of gold straw, its crown encircled by a thin black velvet ribbon which tied at the back in a short bow. Her shoes were square-toed of plain black leather. Bond was excited by her beauty and intrigued by her composure. The prospect of working with her stimulated him. At the same time he felt a vague disquiet. On an impulse he touched wood. Mathis had noticed Bond's preoccupation. After a time he rose. 'Forgive me, ' he said to the girl, 'while I telephone to the Dubernes. I must arrange my rendezvous for dinner tonight. Are you sure you won't mind being left to your own devices this evening?' She shook her head. Bond took the cue and, as Mathis crossed the room to the telephone booth beside the bar, he said: 'If you are going to be alone tonight, would you care to have dinner with me?' She smiled with the first hint of conspiracy she had shown. 'I would like to very much,' she said, 'and then perhaps you would chaperon me to the Casino where Monsieur Mathis tells me you are very much at home. Perhaps I will bring you luck.' With Mathis gone, her attitude towards him showed a sudden warmth. She seemed to acknowledge that they were a team and, as they discussed the time and place of their meeting, Bond realized that it would be quite easy after all to plan the details of his project with her. He felt that after all she was interested and excited by her role and that she would work willingly with him. He had imagined many hurdles before establishing a rapport, but now he felt he could get straight down to professional details. He was quite honest to himself about the hypocrisy of his attitude towards her. As a woman, he wanted to sleep with her, but only when the job had been done. When Mathis came back to the table Bond called for  his bill. He explained that he was expected back at his hotel to have lunch with friends. When for a moment he held her hand in his he felt a warmth of affection and understanding pass between them that would have seemed impossible half an hour earlier. The girl's eyes followed him out on to the boulevard. Mathis moved his chair close to hers and said softly: 'That is a very good friend of mine. I am glad you have met each other. I can already feel the ice-floes on the two rivers breaking up.' He smiled. 'I don't think Bond has ever been melted. It will be a new experience for him. And for you.' She did not answer him directly. 'He is very good-looking. He reminds me rather of Hoagy Carmichael, but there is something cold and ruthless in his ... ' The sentence was never finished. Suddenly a few feet , away the entire plate-glass window shivered into confetti. The blast of a terrific explosion, very near, hit them so that they were rocked back in their chairs. There was an instant of silence. Some objects pattered down on to the pavement outside. Bottles slowly toppled off the shelves behind the bar. Then there were screams and a stampede for the door. 'Stay there,' said Mathis. He kicked back his chair and hurtled through the empty window-frame on to the payment.  When Bond left the bar he walked purposefully along the pavement flanking the tree-lined boulevard towards his hotel a few hundred yards away. He was hungry. The day was still beautiful, but by now the sun was very hot and the plane-trees, spaced about twenty feet apart on the grass verge between the pavement and the broad tarmac, gave a cool shade. There were few people abroad and the two men standing quietly under a tree on the opposite side of the boulevard looked out of place. Bond noticed them when he was still a hundred yards away and when the same distance separated them from the ornamental 'porte-cochere' of the Splendide. There was something rather disquieting about their appearance. They were both small, and they were dressed alike in dark and, Bond reflected, rather hotlooking suits. They had the appearance of a variety turn waiting for a bus on the way to the theatre. Each wore astraw hat with a thick black ribbon as a concession, perhaps, to the holiday atmosphere of the resort, and the. brims of these and the shadow from the tree under which they stood obscured their faces. Incongruously, each dark, squat little figure was illuminated by a touch of bright colour. They were both carrying square camera-cases slung from the shoulder. And one case was bright red and the other case bright blue. By the time Bond had taken in these details, he had come to within fifty yards of the two men. He was reflecting on the ranges of various types of weapon and the possibilities of cover when an extraordinary and terrible scene was enacted. Red-man seemed to give a short nod to Blue-man. With a quick movement Blue-man unslung his blue camera case. Blue-man, and Bond could not see exactly as the trunk of a plane-tree beside him just then intervened to obscure his vision, bent forward and seemed , to fiddle with the case. Then with a blinding flash of white light there was the ear-splitting crack of a monstrous explosion and Bond, despite the protection of the tree-trunk, was slammed down to the pavement by a solid bolt of hot air which dented his cheeks and stomach as if they had been made of paper. He lay, gazing up at the sun, while the air (or so it seemed to him) went on twanging with the explosion as if someone had hit the bass register of a piano with a sledge hammer. When, dazed and half-conscious, he raised himself on one knee, a ghastly rain of pieces of flesh and shreds of blood-soaked clothing fell on him and around him, mingled with branches and gravel. Then a shower of small twigs and leaves. From all sides came the sharp tinkle of falling glass. Above in the sky hung a mushroom of black smoke which rose and dissolved as he drunkenly watched it. There was an obscene smell of high explosive, of burning wood, and of, yes, that was it— roast mutton. For fifty yards down the boulevard the trees were leafless and charred. Opposite, two of them had snapped off near the base and lay drunkenly across the road. Between them there was a still smoking crater. Of the two men in straw hats, there remained absolutely nothing. But there were red traces on the road, and on the pavements and against the trunks of the trees, and there were glittering shreds high up in the branches. Bond felt himself starting to vomit. It was Mathis who got to him first, and by that time Bond was standing with his arm round the tree which had saved his life. Stupefied, but unharmed, he allowed Mathis to lead him off towards the Splendide from which guests and servants were pouring in chattering fright. As the distant clang of bells heralded the arrival of ambulances and fire-engines, they managed to push through the throng and up the short stairs and along the corridor to Bond's room. Mathis paused only to turn on the radio in front of the fireplace, then, while Bond stripped off his bloodflecked clothes, Mathis sprayed him with questions. When it came to the description of the two men, Mathis tore the telephone off its hook beside Bond's bed. . . and tell the police,' he concluded, 'tell them that the Englishman from Jamaica who was knocked over by the blast is my affair. He is unhurt, and they are not to worry him. I will explain to them in half an hour. They should tell the Press that it was apparently a vendetta between two Bulgarian communists and that one killed the other with a bomb. They need say nothing of the third Bulgar who must have been hanging about somewhere, but they must get him at all costs. He will certainly head for Paris. Roadblocks everywhere. Understood? Alors, bonne chance.' Mathis turned back to Bond and heard him to the end. 'Merde, but you were lucky,' he said when Bond had finished. 'Clearly the bomb was intended for you. It must have been faulty. They intended to throw it and then dodge behind their tree. But it all came out the other way round. Never mind. We will discover the facts.' He paused. 'But certainly it is a curious affair. And these people appear to be taking you seriously.' Mathis looked affronted. 'But how did these sacre" Bulgars intend to escape capture? And what was the significance of the red and the blue cases? We must try and find some fragments of the red one.' Mathis bit his nails. He was excited, and his eyes glittered. This was becoming a formidable and dramatic affair, in many aspects of which he was now involved personally. Certainly it was no longer just a case of holding Bond's coat while he had his private battle with Le Chiffre in the Casino. Mathis jumped up. 'Now get a drink and some lunch and a rest,' he ordered Bond. 'For me, I must get my nose quickly into this affair before the police have muddied the trail with their big black boots.' Mathis turned off the radio and waved an affectionate farewell. The door slammed, and silence settled on the room. Bond sat for a while by the window and enjoyed being alive. Later, as Bond was finishing his first straight whisky 'on the rocks' and was contemplating the p§te de foie . gras and cold langouste which the waiter had just laid out for him, the telephone rang. 'This is Mademoiselle Lynd.' The voice was low and anxious. 'Are you all right?' 'Yes, quite.' 'I'm glad: Please take care of yourself.' She rang off. Bond shook himself, then he picked up his knife and selected the thickest of the pieces of hot toast . He suddenly thought: two of them are dead, and I have got one more on my side. It's a start. He dipped the knife into the glass of very hot water which stood beside the pot of Strasbourg porcelain and reminded himself to tip the waiter doubly for this particular meal.  Rouge et Noir  Bond was determined to be completely fit and relaxed for a gambling session which might last most of the night. He ordered a masseur for three o'clock. After the remains of his luncheon had been removed, he sat at his window gazing out to sea until there came a knock on the door as the masseur, a Swede, presented himself. Silently he got to work on Bond from his feet to his neck, melting the tensions in his body and calming his still twanging nerves. Even the long purpling bruises down Bond's left shoulder and side ceased to throb, and when the Swede had gone Bond fell into a dreamless sleep. He awoke in the evening completely refreshed. After a cold shower, Bond walked over to the Casino. Since the night before he had lost the mood of the tables. He needed to reestablish that focus which is half mathematical and half intuitive and which, with a slow pulse and a sanguine temperament, he knew to be the  essential equipment of any gambler who was set on winning. Bond had always been a gambler. He loved the dry riffle of the cards and the constant unemphatic drama of the quiet figures round the green tables. He liked the solid, studied comfort of cardrooms and casinos, the well-padded arms of the chairs, the glass of champagne or whisky at the elbow, the quiet unhurried attention of good servants. He was amused by the impartiality of the roulette ball and of the playing cards — and their eternal bias. He liked being an actor and a spectator and from his chair to take part in other men's dramas and decisions, until it came to his own turn to say that vital 'yes' or 'no,' generally on a fifty-fifty chance. Above all, he liked it that everything was one's own fault. There was only oneself to praise or blame. Luck was a servant and not a master. Luck had to be accepted with a shrug or taken advantage of up to the hilt. But it had to be understood and recognized for what it was and not confused with a faulty appreciation of the odds, , for, at gambling, the deadly sin is to mistake bad play for bad luck. And luck in all its moods had to be loved and not feared. Bond saw luck as a woman, to be softly wooed or brutally ravaged, never pandered to or pursued. But he was honest enough to, admit that he had never yet been made to suffer by cards or by women. One day, and he accepted the fact, he would be brought to his knees by love or by luck. When that happened he knew that he too would be branded with the deadly question-mark he recognized so often in others, the promise to -pay before you have lost: the acceptance of fallibility. But on this June evening when Bond walked through the 'kitchen' into the salle priv6e, it was with a sensation of confidence and cheerful anticipation that he changed a million francs into plaques of fifty mille and took a seat next to the chef de partie at Roulette. Table Number 1. . Bond borrowed the chef's card and studied the run of the ball since the session had started at three o'clock that afternoon. He always did this although he knew thateach turn of the wheel, each fall of the ball into a numbered slot, had absolutely no connexion with its predecessor. He accepted that the game begins afresh each time the croupier picks up the ivory ball with his right hand, gives one of the four spokes of the wheel a controlled twist clockwise with the same hand and, with a third motion, also with the right hand, flicks the ball round the outer rim of the wheel anticlockwise, against its spin. It was obvious that all this ritual and all the mechanical minutiae of the wheel, of the numbered slots and the cylinder, had been devised and perfected over the years so that neither the skill of the croupier nor any bias in the wheel could affect the fall of the ball. And yet it is a convention among roulette players, and Bond rigidly adhered to it, to take careful note of the past history of each session and to be guided by any peculiarities in the run of the wheel. To note, for instance, and consider significant, sequences of more than two on a single number or of more than four at the other chances down to evens. Bond didn't defend the practice. He simply maintained that the more effort and ingenuity you put into gambling, the more you took out. On the record of that particular table, after about three hours' play, Bond could see little of interest except that the last dozen had been out of favour, It was his practice to play always with the wheel, and only to turn against its previous pattern and start on a new tack after a zero had turned up. So he decided to play one of his favourite gambits and back two— in this case the first two— dozens, each with the maximum— one hundred thousand francs. He thus had two-thirds of the board covered (less the zero) and, since the dozens pay odds of two to one, he stood to win a hundred thousand francs every time any number lower than turned up. After seven coups he had won six times. He lost on the seventh When came up. His net profit was half a million francs. He kept off the table for the eighth throw. Zero turned up. This piece of luck cheered him further and, accepting the as a finger-post to the last dozen, he decided to back the first and last dozens until he had lost twice. Ten throws later the middle dozen came up twice, costing him four hundred thousand francs, but he rose from the table eleven hundred thousand francs to the good. Directly Bond had started playing in maximums, his game had become the centre of interest at the table. As he seemed to be in luck, one or two pilot fish started to swim with the shark. Sitting directly opposite, one of these, whom Bond took to be "an American, had shown more than the usual friendliness and pleasure at his share of the winning streak. He had smiled once or twice across the table, and there was something pointed in the way he duplicated Bond's movements, placing his two modest plaques of ten mille exactly opposite Bond's larger ones. When Bond rose, he too pushed back his chair and called cheerfully across the table: 'Thanks for the ride. Guess I owe you a drink. Will you join me?' Bond had a feeling that this might be the CI. A. man. He knew he was right as they strolled off together towards the bar, after Bond had thrown a plaque of ten mille to the croupier and had given a mille to the huissier who drew back his chair. 'My name's Felix Leiter,' said the American. 'Glad to meet you. ' 'Mine's Bond— James Bond.' 'Oh, yes,' said his companion, 'and now let's see. What shall we have to celebrate?' Bond insisted on ordering Leiter's Haig-and Haig 'on the rocks,' and then he looked carefully at the barman. 'A dry Martini,' he said. 'One. In a deep champagne goblet.' 'Oui, Monsieur.' 'Just a moment. Three measures of Gordon's, one of vodka, half a measure of Kina Lillet. Shake it very well until it's ice-cold, then add a large thin slice of lemonpeel. Got it?' 'Certainly, monsieur.' The barman seemed pleased with the idea. 'Gosh, that's certainly a drink,' said Leiter. Bond laughed. 'When I'm-er-concentrating,' he explained, 'I never have more. than one drink before dinner. But I do like that one to be large and very strong and very cold and very well-made. I hate small portions of anything, particularly when they taste bad. This drink's my own invention. I'm going to patent it when I can think of a good name.' He watched carefully as the deep glass became frosted with the pale golden drink, slightly aerated by the bruising of the shaker. He reached for it and took a long sip. 'Excellent,' he said to the barman, 'but if you can get a vodka made with grain instead of potatoes, you will find it still better.' 'Mais n'enculons pas des mouches,' he added in an aside to the barman. The barman grinned. 'That's a vulgar way of saying "we won't split hairs," ' explained Bond. But Leiter was still interested in Bond's drink. 'You certainly think things out,' he said with amusement as they carried their glasses to a corner of the room. He lowered his voice: 'You'd better call it the "Molotov Cocktail" after the one you tasted this afternoon.' , They sat down. Bond laughed. 'I see that the spot marked X has been roped off, and they're making cars take a detour over the pavement. I hope it hasn't frightened away any of the big money. ' 'People are accepting the communist story or else they think it was a burst gas-main. All the burnt trees are coming down tonight and if they work things here like they do at Monte Carlo, there won't be a trace of the mess left in the morning.' Leiter shook a Chesterfield out of his pack. 'I'm glad to be working with you on this job,' he said, looking into his drink, 'so I'm particularly glad you didn't get blown to glory. Our people are definitely interested. They think it's just as important as your friends do, and they don't think there's anything crazy about it at all. In fact, Washington's pretty sick we're not running the show, but you know what the big brass is like. I expect your fellows are much the same in London. ' Bond nodded. 'Apt to be a bit jealous of their scoops,' he admitted. 'Anyway, I'm under your orders and I'm to give you any help you ask for. With Mathis and his boys here, there may not be much that isn't taken care of already. But, anyway, here I am. ' 'I'm delighted you are,' said Bond. 'The opposition has got me, and probably you and Mathis too, all weighed up, and it seems no holds are going to be barred. I'm glad Le Chiffre seems as desperate as we thought he was. I'm afraid I haven't got anything very specific for you to do, but I'd be grateful if you'd stick around the Casino this evening. I've got an assistant, a Miss Lynd, and I'd like to hand her over to you when I start playing. You won't be ashamed of her. She's a good-looking girl.' He smiled at Leiter. 'And you might mark his two gunmen. I can't ; imagine he'll try a roughhouse, but you never know. ' 'I may be able to help,' said Leiter. 'I was a regular in our Marine Corps before I joined this racket, if that means anything to you.' He looked at Bond with a hint of self-deprecation. . 'It does,' said Bond. It turned out that Leiter was from Texas. While he talked on about his job with the Joint Intelligence Staff of N.A.T.O. and the difficulty of maintaining security in an organization where so many nationalities were represented, Bond reflected th^t good Americans were fine people and that most of them seemed to come from Texas. Felix Leiter was about thirty-five. He was tall with a thin bony frame and his lightweight, tan-coloured suit hung loosely from his shoulders like the clothes of Frank Sinatra. His movements and speech were slow," but one had the feeling that there was plenty of speed and strength in him, and that he. would be a tough-and cruel fighter. As he sat hunched over the table, he seemed to have some of the jackknife quality of a falcon. There was this impression also in his face, in the sharpness of his chin and cheekbones and the wide wry mouth. His grey eyes had a feline slant which was increased by his habit of screwing them up against the smoke of the Chesterfields which he tapped out of the pack in a chain. The permanent wrinkles which this habit had etched at the corners gave the impression that he smiled more with his eyes than with his mouth. A mop of straw-coloured hair lent his face a boyish look which closer examination contradicted. Although he seemed to talk quite openly about his duties in Paris, Bond soon noticed that he never spoke of his American colleagues in Europe or in Washington, and he guessed that Leiter held the interests of his own organization far above the mutual concerns of the North Atlantic Allies. Bond sympathized with him. By the time Leiter had swallowed another whisky and Bond had told him about the Muntzes and his short reconnaissance trip down the coast that morning, it was seven-thirty, and they decided to stroll over to their hotel together. Before leaving the Casino, Bond deposited his total capital of twenty-four million at the caisse, keeping only a few notes of ten mille as pocketmoney. As they walked across to the Splendide, they saw that a team of workmen was already busy at the scene of the explosion. Several trees were uprooted and hoses frOm three municipal tank cars were washing down the boulevard and pavements. The bomb-crater had disappeared and only a few passers-by had paused to gape. Bond assumed that similar face-lifting had already been carried out at the Hermitage and to the, shops and frontages which had lost their windows. " In the warm blue dusk Royale-les-Eaux was once again orderly and peaceful. 'Who's the concierge working for?' asked Leiter as they approached the hotel. Bond was not sure, and said so. Mathis had been unable to enlighten him, 'Unless you have bought him yourself,' he had said, 'you must assume that he has been bought by the other side. All concierges are venal. It is not their fault. They are trained to regard all hotel guests except maharajahs as potential cheats and thieves. They have as much concern for your comfort or welKbeing as crocodiles.' Bond remembered Mathis' s pronouncement when the concierge hurried up to inquire whether he had recovered from his most unfortunate experience of the afternoon. Bond thought it well to say that he still felt a little bit shaky. He hoped that if the intelligence were relayed; Le Chiffre would at any rate start playing that evening with a basic misinterpretation of his adversary's strength. The concierge proffered glycerine hopes for Bond's recovery.  ROUGE ET NOIR Letter's room was on one of the upper floors and they parted company at the lift after arranging to see each other at the Casino at around half-past ten or eleven, the usual hour for the high tables to begin play.  Bond walked up to his room, which again showed no sign of trespass, threw off his clothes, took a long hot bath followed by an ice-cold shower, and lay down on his bed. There remained an hour in which to rest and compose his thoughts before he met the girl in the Splendide bar, an hour to examine minutely the details of his plans for the game, and for after the game, in all the various circumstances of victory or defeat. He had to plan the attendant roles of Mathis, Letter, and the girl and visualize the reactions of the enemy in various contingencies. He closed his eyes, and his thoughts pursued his imagination through a series of carefully constructed scenes as if he were watching the tumbling chips of coloured glass in a kaleidoscope. At twenty minutes to nine he had exhausted all the permutations which might result from his duel with Le Chiffre. He rose and dressed, dismissing the future completely from his mind. As he tied his thin, double-ended, black satin tie, he  50. paused for a moment and examined himself levelly in the mirror. His grey-blue eyes looked calmly back with a hint of ironical inquiry and the short lock of black hair which would never stay in place slowly subsided to form a thick comma above his right eyebrow. With the thin vertical scar down his right cheek the general effect was faintly piratical. Not much of Hoagy Carmichael there, thought Bond, as he filled a flat, light, gun-metal box with fifty of the Morland cigarettes with the triple gold band. Mathis had told him of the girl's comment. He slipped the case into his hip pocket and snapped his black oxidized Ronson to see if it needed fuel. After pocketing the thin sheaf of ten-mille notes, he opened a drawer and took out a light chamois leather holster and slipped it over his left shoulder so that it hung about three inches below his armpit. He then took from under his shirts in another drawer a very flat .25 Beretta automatic With a skeleton grip, extracted the clip and the single round in the barrel and whipped the action to and fro several times, finally pulling the trigger on the empty chamber. He charged the weapon again, loaded it, put up the safety catch, and dropped it into the shallow pouch of the shoulder-holster. He looked carefully round the room to see if anything had been forgotten and slipped his single-breasted dinner-jacket coat over his heavy silk evening shirt. He felt cool and comfortable. He verified in the mirror that there was absolutely no sign of the flat gun under his left arm, gave a final pull at his narrow tie and walked out of the door and locked it. When he turned at the foot of the short stairs towards the bar, he heard the lift-door open behind him and a cool voice call, 'Good evening.'It was the girl. She stood and waited for him to come up to her. He had remembered her beauty exactly. He was not surprised to be thrilled by it again. Her dress, was of black velvet, simple and yet with the touch of splendour that only half a dozen couturiers in the world can achieve. There was a thin necklace of diamonds at her throat and a diamond clip in the low vee which just exposed the jutting swell of her breasts. She carried a plain black evening bag, a flat oblong which she now held, her arm akimbo, at her waist. Her jet-black hair hung straight and simply to the final inward curl below the chin. She looked quite superb, and Bond's heart lifted. 'You look absolutely lovely. Business must be good in the radio world!' She put her arm through his. 'Do you mind if we go straight in to dinner?' she asked. 'I want to make a grand entrance, and the truth is there's a horrible secret about black velvet. It marks when you sit down. And, by the way, if you hear me scream tonight, I shall have sat on a cane chair.' Bond laughed. 'Of course, let's go straight in. We'll have a glass of vodka while we order our dinner. ' She gave him an amused glance, and he corrected himself: 'Or a cocktail, of course, if you prefer it. The food here's the best in Royale.' For an instant he felt nettled at the touch of irony, the lightest shadow of a snub, with which she had met his decisiveness, and at the way he had risen to her quick glance. But it was only an infinitesimal clink of foils and as the bowing maitre d'hStel led them through the crowded room, it was forgotten as Bond in her wake watched the heads of the diners turn to look at her. The fashionable part of the restaurant was beside the wide crescent of window built out like the broad stern of a ship over the hotel gardens, but Bond had chosen a table in one of the mirrored alcoves at the back of the great room. These had survived from Edwardian days and they were secluded and gay in white and gilt, with the red silk-shaded table and wall lights of the late Empire. As they deciphered the maze of purple ink which covered the double folio menu, Bond beckoned to the sommelier. He turned to his companion. 'Have you decided?' 'I would love a glass of vodka,' she said simply, and went back to her study of the menu. 'A small carafe of vodka, very cold,' ordered Bond. He said to her abruptly: 'I can't drink the health of your new frock without knowing your Christian name.' 'Vesper, ' she said. 'Vesper Lynd. ' ,. Bond gave her a look of inquiry. 'It's rather abore always having to explain/but I /'was born in the evening, on a very stormy evening according to my parents. Apparently they wanted to remember it.' She smiled. 'Some people like it, others don't. I'm just used to it.' 'I think it's a fine name,' said Bond. An idea struck him. 'Can I borrow it? ? He explained about the special Martini he had invented and his search for a name for it. 'The Vesper,' he said. 'It sounds perfect and it's very appropriate to the violet hour when my cocktail will now be drunk all over the world. Can I have it? ' 'So long as I can try one first*' she promised.. 'It sounds a drink to be proud of.' 'We'll have one together when all this is finished,' said Bond. 'Win or lose. And now have you decided what you would like to have for dinner? Please be expensive, ' he, added as he sensed her hesitation, 'or you'll let down that beautiful frock.' .'-,•; 'I'd made two choices,' she laughed, 'and either would have been delicious; but behaving like a millionaire occasionally is a wonderful treat, and if you're sure . . . well, I'd like to start with caviar and then have a/plain grilled rognon de veau with pommes ' soufflSs. And then I'd like to have fraises des bois with a lot of cream. Is it very shameless to be so certain and so expensive? ' She smiled at him inquiringly. 'It's a virtue, and anyway' it's only a good plain wholesome meal.' He turned to the maitre d'hdtel. 'And bring plenty of toast. 'The trouble always is,' he explained to Vesper, 'not how to get enough caviar, but how to get enough toast with it. 'Now,' he turned back to the menu, 'I myself will accompany Mademoiselle with the caviar; but then I would like a very small tournedos, underdone, with sauce Bearnaise artd a coeur d'artichaut. While Mademoiselle is enjoying the strawberries, I will have an avocado pear with a little French dressing. Do you approve?' The maitred'hdtel bowed. 'My compliments, mademoiselle and monsieur. Monsieur George . . .' He turned to the sommelier and repeated the two dinners for his benefit . 'Parfait,' said the sommelier, proffering the leatherbound wine list. 'If you agree,' said Bond, 'I would prefer to drink champagne with you tonight. It is a cheerful wine, and it suits the occasion — I hope,' he added. 'Yes, I would like champagne, ' she said. With his finger on the page, Bond turned to the sommelier: 'The Taittinger 45?' 'A fine wine, monsieur,' said the sommelier. 'But if Monsieur will permit,' he pointed with his pencil, 'the Brut Blanc de Blanc 1943 of the same marque is without equal.' Bond smiled. 'So be it,' he said. "That is not a well-known brand,' Bond explained to his companion, 'but it is probably the finest champagne in the world.' He grinned suddenly at the touch of pretension in his remark. 'You must forgive me,' he said. 'I take a ridiculous pleasure in what I eat and drink. It comes partly from being a bachelor, but mostly from a habit of taking a lot of trouble over details. It's very pernickety and oldmaidish really, but then when I'm working I generally have to eat my meals alone and it makes them more in T teresting when one takes trouble.' Vesper smiled at him. 'I like it,' she said. 'I like doing everything fully, getting the most out of everything one does. I think that's the way to live. But it sounds rather schoolgirlish when one says it, she added apologetically. The little carafe of Vodka had arrived in its bowl of crushed ice, and Bond filled their glasses. 'Well, I agree with you anyway,' he said, 'and now, here's luck for tonight, Vesper.' , , 'Yes,' said the girl quietly, as she held up her small, glass and looked at him with a curious directness straight in the'eyes. 'I hope all will go well tonight. She seemed to Bond to give a quick involuntary shrug of the shoulders as she spoke, but then she leant impulsively towards him. : 'I have some news for you from Mathis. He was longing to tell you himself. It's, about the bomb: It's a fantastic story.'  Bond looked round; but there was no possibility of being overheard, and the cayiar would be waiting for the hot toast from the kitchens. 'Tell me. ' His eyes glittered with interest. 'They got the third Bulgar, on the road to Paris. He was in a Citroen, and he had picked up two English hikers as protective colouring. At the roadblock his French was so bad that they asked for his papers, and he brought out a gun and shot one of the motor-cycle patrol. But the other man got him, I don't know how, and managed to stop him committing suicide. Then they took him down to Rouen and extracted the story — in the usual French fashion, I suppose. 'Apparently they were part of a pool held in France for this sort of job — saboteurs, thugs, and so on — and Mathis's friends are already trying to round up the rest. They were to get two million francs for killing you, and the agent who briefed them told them there was ab solutely no chance of being caught if they followed his instructions exactly.' She took a sip of vodka. 'But this is the interesting part. 'The agent gave them the two camera-cases you saw. He said the bright colours would make it easier for them. He told them that the blue case contained a very powerful smoke-bomb. The red case was the explosive. As one of them threw the red case the other was to press a switch on the blue case, and they would escape under cover of the smoke. In fact, the smoke-bomb was a pure invention to make the Bulgars think they could get away. Both cases contained an identical high-explosive bomb. There was no difference between the blue and the red cases. The idea was to destroy you and the bombthrowers without a trace. Presumably there were other plans for dealing with the third man. ' 'Go on,' said Bond, full of admiration for the ingenuity of the double-cross. 'Well, apparently the Bulgars thought this sounded very fine, but cannily they decided to take no chances. It would be better, they thought, to touch off the smokebomb first and, from inside the cloud of smoke, hurl the explosive bomb at you. What you saw was the assistant bomb-thrower pressing down the lever on the phony smoke-bomb; and, of course, they both went up together. 'The third Bulgar was waiting behind the Splendide to pick his two friends up. When he saw what had hapr pened, he assumed they had bungled. But the police picked up some fragments of the unexploded red bomb, and he was confronted with them. When he saw that they had been tricked and that his two friends were meant to be murdered with you, he started to talk. I expect he's still talking now. But there's nothing to link all this with Le Chiffre. They were given the job by some intermediary, perhaps one of Le Chiffre's guards, and Le Chiffre's name means absolutely nothing to the one who survived.' She finished her story just as the waiters arrived with the caviarj a mound of hot toast, and small dishes containing finely chopped onion and grated hard-boiled egg, the white in one dish and the yolk in another. The caviar was heaped on to their plates, and they ate for a time in silence. After a while Bond said: 'It's very satisfactory to be a corpse who changes places with his murderers. For them, it certainly was a case of being hoist with their own petard. Mathis must be very pleased with the day's work — five of the opposition neutralized in twenty-four hours.' And he told her how the Muntzes had been confounded. 'Incidentally,' he asked, 'how did you come to get mixed up in this affair? What section are you in?' 'I'm personal assistant to Head of S,' said Vesper. 'As it was his plan he wanted his section to have a hand in the operation, and he asked M. if I could go. It seemed only to be a liaison job, so M. said yes although he told my chief that you would be furious at being given a woman to work with.' She paused and, when Bond said nothing, continued: 'I had to meet Mathis in Paris and come down with him. I've got a friend who is a vendeuse with Dior, and somehow she managed to borrow me this and the frock I was wearing this morning; otherwise I couldn't possibly have competed with all these people.' She made a gesture towards the room. 'The office was very jealous although they didn't know what the job was. All they knew was that I was to work with a Double O. Of course you're our heroes. I was enchanted.' Bond frowned. 'It's not difficult to get a Double O number if you're prepared to kill people,' he said. 'That's all the meaning it has. It's nothing to be particularly proud of. I've got the corpses of a Japanese cipher expert in New York and a Norwegian double agent in Stockholm to thank for being a Double O. Probably quite decent people. They just got caught up in the gale of the world like that Yugoslav that Tito bumped off. It's a confusing business; but if it's one's profession one does what one's told. How do you like the grated egg with your caviar? ' 'It's a wonderful combination,' she said. 'I'm loving my dinner. It seems a shame — ' She stopped, warned by a cold look in Bond's eye. 'If it wasn't for the job, we wouldn't be here,' he said. Suddenly he regretted the intimacy of their dinner and of their talk. He felt that he had said too much and what was only a working relationship had become confused. 'Let's consider what has to be done,' he said in a matter-of-fact voice. 'I'd better explain what I'm going to try and do, and how you can help. Which isn't very much, I'm afraid,' he added. 'Now these are the basic facts.' He proceeded to sketch out the plan and enumerate the various contingencies which faced them. The maltre d'hdtel surpervised the serving of the second course, and then as they ate the delicious food Bond continued. She listened to him coldly, but with attentive obedience. Shefelt thoroughly deflated by his harshness, while admitting to herself that she should have paid more heed to the warnings of Head of S. 'He's a dedicated man,' her chief had said when he gave her the assignment. 'Don't imagine this is going to be any fun. He thinks of nothing but the job on hand and, while it's on, he's absolute hell to work for. But he's an expert, and there aren't many about; so you won't be wasting your time. He's a good-looking chap— but don't fall for him. I don't think he's got much heart. Anyway, good luck, and don't get hurt. ' All this had been something of a challenge, and she was pleased when she felt she attracted and interested him, as she knew intuitively that she did. Then at a hint that they were finding pleasure together, a hint that was only the first words of a conventional phrase, he had suddenly turned to ice and had brutally veered away as if warmth were poison to him. She felt hurt and foolish. Then she gave a mental shrug and concentrated with all her attention on what he was saying. She would not make the same mistake again. ' . . . and the main hope is to pray for a run of luck for me, or against him.' Bond was explaining just how baccarat is played. 'It's much the same as any other gambling game. The odds against the banker and the player are more or less even. Only a run against either can be decisive and ' 'break the bank, ' ' or break the players. • 'Tonight, Le Chiffre, we know, has bought the baccarat bank from the Egyptian syndicate which is running the high tables here. He paid a million francs for it, and his capital has'been reduced to twenty-four million. I have about the same. There will be ten players, I expect, and we sit round the banker at a kidney-shaped table. 'Generally, this table is divided into two tableaux. The banker plays two games, one against each of the tableaux to left and right of him. In that game, the banker should be able to win by playing off one tableau against the other and by first-class accountancy. But there aren't enough baccarat players yet at Royale, and Le Chiffre is just going to pit his luck against the other players at the single tableau. It's , unusual because the odds in favour of the banker aren't so good; but they're a shade in his favour and, of course, he has control of the size of the stakes. 'Well, the banker sits there in the middle with a croupier to rake in the cards and call the amount of each bank and a chef de partie to umpire the game generally. I shall be sitting as near dead opposite Le Chiffre as I can get. In front of him he has a shoe containing six packs of cards, well shuffled. There's absolutely no chance of tampering with the shoe. The cards are shuffled by the croupier and cut bygone of the players and put into the shoe in full view of the table. We've checked on the staff, and they're all okay. It would be useful, but almost impossible, to mark all the cards, and it would mean the connivance at least of the croupier. Anyway, we shall be watching for that too. ' •Bond drank some champagne and continued. 'Now what happens at the game is this. The banker announces an opening bank of five hundred thousand francs, or five hundred pounds as it is now. Each seat is numbered from the right of the banker, and the player next to the banker, or Number 1, can accept this bet and push his money out on to the table, or pass it if it is too much or he doesn't want to take it. Then Number has the right to take it; and if he refuses then Number 3, and so on round the table. If no single player takes it all, the bet is offered to the table as a whole and everyone chips in, including sometimes the spectators round the table, until the five hundred thousand is made up. 'That is a small bet which would immediately be met, but when it gets to a million or two, it's often difficult to find a taker or even, if the bank seems to be in luck, a group of takers to cover the bet. At that moment I shall always try and step in and accept the bet— in fact, I shall attack Le Chiffre's bank whenever I get a chance until either I've bust his bank or he's bust me. It may take some time, but in the end one of us two is bound to break the other, irrespective of the other players at the table, although they can, of course, make him richer or poorer in the meantime. 'Being the banker, he's got a slight advantage in the play; but knowing that I'm making a dead set at him and now knowing, I hope, my capital, is bound to play on his nerves a bit, so I'm hoping that we start about equal.' He paused while the strawberries came, and the avocado pear. For a while they ate in silence, then they talked of other things while the coffee was served. They smoked. Neither of them drank brandy or a liqueur. Finally, Bond felt it was time to explain the actual mechanics of the game. 'It's a simple affair,' he said, 'and you'll understand it at once if you've ever played vingt-et-un, where the object is to get cards from the banker which add up more closely to a count of twenty-one than his do. In this game I get two cards and the banker gets two; and, unless anyone wins outright, either or both of us can get one more card. The object of the game is to hold two, or three cards which together count nine points, Or as nearly nine as possible. Court cards and tens count nothing; aces one each; any other card its face value. It is only the last figure of your count that signifies. So nine plus seven equals six — not sixteen. 'The winner is the one whose count, is nearest to nine. Draws are played over again.' Vesper listened attentively, but she also watched the look of abstract passion on Bond's face. 'Now,' Bond continued, 'when the banker deals me my two cards, if they add up to eight or nine, they're a "natural" and I turn them up and I win, unless he has an equal or a better natural. If I haven't got a natural, I can stand on a seven or a six, perhaps ask for a card or perhaps not, on a five, and certainly ask for a card if my count is lower than five. Five is the turning point of the game. According to the odds, the chance of bettering or worsening your hand if you hold a five are exactly even. 'Only when I ask for a card or tap mine to signify that I stand on what I have, can the banker look at his. If he has a natural, he turns them up and wins. Otherwise he is faced with the same problems as I was. But he is helped in his decision to draw or not to draw a card by my actions. If I have stood he must assume that I have a five, six, or seven: if I have drawn, he will know that I had something less than a six and I may have improved my hand or not with the card he gave me. And this card was dealt to me face up. On its face value and a knowledge of the odds, he will know whether to take another card or to stand on his own. 'So he has a very slight advantage over me. He has a tiny help over his decision to draw or to stand. But there is always one problem card at this game: Shall one draw or stand on a five, and what will your opponent do with a five? Some players always draw or always stand,. I follow my intuition. '...',!' 'But in the end' — Bond stubbed out his cigarette and called for the bill — 'it's the natural eights and nines that matter, and I must just see that I get more of them than he does.'  While telling the story of the game and anticipating the coming fight, Bond's face had lit up again. The prospect of at last getting to grips with Le Chiffre stimulated him and quickened his pulse. He seemed to have completely forgotten the brief coolness between them, and Vesper was relieved and entered into his mood. He paid the bill and gave a handsome tip to the sommelier. Vesper rose and led the way out of the restaurant and out on to the steps of the hotel. The big Bentley was waiting and Bond drove Vesper over, parking as close to the entrance as he could. As they walked through the ornate anterooms, he hardly spoke. She looked at him and saw that his nostrils were , slightly flared. In other respects he seemed completely at ease, acknowledging cheerfully the greetings of the Casino functionaries. At the door to the salle privee they were not asked for their membership cards. Bond's high gambling had already made him a favoured client,and any companion of his shared in the glory. Before they had penetrated very far into the main room, Felix Leiter detached himself from one of the roulette tables and greeted Bond as an old friend., After being introduced to Vesper Lynd and exchanging a few remarks, Leiter said: 'Well, since you're playing baccarat this evening, will you allow me to show Miss Lynd how to break the bank at roulette? I've got three lucky numbers that are bound to show soon, and I expect Miss Lynd has some too. Then perhaps we could come and watch you when your game starts to warm up. ' Bond looked inquiringly at Vesper. 'I should love that,' she said. 'But will you give me one of your lucky numbers to play on? ' 'I have no lucky numbers,' said Bond unsmilingly. 'I only bet on even chances, or as near them as I can get. Well, I shall leave you then.' He excused himself. 'You will be in excellent hands with .my friend Felix Leiter. ' He gave a short smile which' embraced them both and walked with an unhurried gait towards the caisse. Leiter sensed the rebuff, 'He's a very serious gambler, Miss Lynd,' he said. 'And I guess he has to be. Now come with me and watch Number obey my extrasensory perceptions. You'll find it quite a painless sensation being given plenty of money for nothing. ' Bond was relieved to be on his own again and tq be able to clear his mind of everything but the task on hand. He stood at the caisse and took his twenty-four million francs against the receipt which had been given him that afternoon. He divided the notes into equal , packets and put half the sum into his right-hand coat pocket and the other half into the left. Then he strolled slowly across the room between the thronged tables until he came to the top of the room where the broad baccarat table waited behind the brass rail. The table was filling up, and the cards were spread face down, being stirred and mixed slowly in what is known as the 'croupiers' shuffle' — supposedly the shuffle which is most effective and least susceptible to cheating. The chef de partie lifted the velvet-covered chain which allowed entrance through the brass rail. 'I've kept Number as you wished, Monsieur Bond.' There were still three other empty places at the table. Bond moved inside the rail to which a huissier was holding out his chair. He sat down with a nod to the players on his right and left. He took out his wide gunmetal cigarette case and his black lighter and placed them on the green baize at his right elbow. The huissier wiped a thick glass ashtray with a cloth and put it beside them. Bond lit a cigarette and leant back in his chair. Opposite him, the banker's chair was vacant. He glanced round the table. He knew most of the players by sight, but, few of their names. At Number 7, on his right, there was a Monsieur Sixte, a wealthy Belgian with metal interests in the Congo. At Number there was Lord Danvers, a distinguished but weak-looking man whose francs were presumably provided by his rich American wife, a middle-aged woman with the predatory mouth of a barracuda, who sat at Number . Bond reflected that they would probably play a pawky and nervous game and be amongst the early casualties. At Number , to the right of the bank, was a wellknown Greek gambler who owned, as in Bond's experience apparently everyone does in the eastern Mediterranean, a profitable shipping line. He would play coldly and well and would be a stayer. Bond asked the huissier for a card and wrote on it, under a neat question mark, the remaining numbers, 2, 4, 5, 8, 10, and asked the huissier to give it to the chef de partie. Soon it came back with the names filled in. Number 2, still empty, was to be Carmel Delane, the American film star with alimony from three husbands to burn and, Bond assumed, a call on still more from whoever her present companion at Royale might be. With her sanguine temperament she would play gaily and with panache and might run into a vein of luck. Then came Lady Danvers at Number and Numbers and were a Mr. and Mrs. Du Pont, rich-looking, who might or might not have some of the real Du Pont money behind them. Bond guessed they would be stayers. They both had a businesslike look about them and were talking together easily and cheerfully as if they felt very much at home at the big game. Bond was quite happy to have them next to him— Mrs. Du Pont sat at Number 5— and he felt prepared to share with them or with Monsieur Sixte on his right, if they found themselves faced with too big a bank. At Number was the Maharajah of a small Indian state, probably with all his wartime sterling balances to play with. Bond's experience told him that few of the Asiatic races were courageous gamblers, even the muchvaunted Chinese being inclined to lose heart if the going was bad. But the Maharajah would probably stay late in the game and stand some heavy losses if they were gradual. Number was a prosperous-looking young Italian, Signor Tomelli, who possibly had plenty of money from rack-rents in Milan and would probably play a dashing and foolish game. He might lose his temper and make a scene. Bond had just finished his sketchy summing-up of the players when Le Chiffre, with the silence and economy of movement of a big fish, came through the opening in the brass rail and, with a cold smile of welcome for the table, took his place directly opposite Bond in the Banker's chair. With the same economy of movement, he cut the thick slab of cards, which the croupier had placed on the table squarely between his blunt relaxed hands. Then, as the croupier fitted the six packs with one swift motion into the metal and wooden shoe, Le Chiffre said something quietly to him. 'Messieurs, mesdames, les jeux sont faits, Un banco de cinq cent mille.' And, as the Greek at Number tapped the table in front of his fat pile of hundred-mille plaques: 'Le banco est fait.' Le Chiffre crouched over the shoe. He gave it a short deliberate slap to settle the cards, the first of which showed its semicircular pale pink tongue through the slanting aluminum mouth of the shoe. Then, with a thick white forefinger he pressed gently on the pink tongue and slipped out the first card six inches or a foot towards the Greek on his right hand. Then he slipped out a card for himself, then another for the Greek, then one more for himself. He sat immobile, not touching his own cards. He looked at the Greek's face. With his flat wooden spatula, like a long bricklayer's trowel, the croupier delicately lifted up the Greek's two cards and dropped them with a quick movement an extra few inches to the right so that they lay just before the Greek's pale hairy hands, which lay inert like two watchful pink crabs on the table. The two pink crabs scuttled out together and the Greek gathered the cards into his wide left hand and cautiously bent his head so that he could see, in the shadow made by his cupped hand, the value of the bottom of the two cards. Then he slowly inserted the forefinger of his right hand and slipped the bottom card slightly sideways so that the value of the top card was also just perceptible. His face was quite impassive. He flattened out his left hand on the table and then withdrew it, leaving the two pink cards face down before him, their secret unrevealed. Then he lifted his head and looked Le Chiffre in the eye. 'Non,' said the Greek flatly. From the decision to stand on his two cards and not to ask for another, it was clear that the Greek had a five, or a six, or a seven. To be certain Of winning, the bank had to reveal an eight or a nine. If the banker failed to show either figure, he also had the right to take another card which might or might not improve his count. Le Chiffre's hands were clasped in front of him, his two cards three or four inches away. With his right hand he picked up the two cards and turned them face upwards on the table with a faint snap. They were a four and a five, an uhdef eatable natural nine. He had won. 'Neuf a la banque,' quietly said the croupier. With his spatula he faced the Greek's two cards, 'Et le sept,' he said unemotionally, lifting up gently the corpses of the seven and queen and slipping them through the wide slot in the table near his chair which leads into the big metal canister to which all dead cards are consigned. Le Chiffre's two cards followed them with the faint rattle which comes from the canister at the beginning of each session before the discards have made a cushion over the metal floor of their oubliette. The Greek pushed forward five plaques of one hundred thousand, and the coupier added these to Le Chiffre's half-million plaque which lay in the centre of the table. From each bet the Casino takes a tiny percentage, the cagnotte; but it is usual at a big game for the banker to subscribe this himself either in a prearranged lump sum or by contributions at the end of each hand, so that the amount of the bank's stake can always be a round figure. Le Chiffre had chosen the second course. The croupier slipped some counters through the slot in the table which receives the cagnotte and announced quietly: 'Un banco d'un million.' 'Suivi,' murmured the Greek, meaning that he exercised his right to follow up his lost bet. Bond lit a cigarette and settled himself in his chair. The long game was launched, and the sequence of these gestures and the reiteration of this subdued litany would continue until the end came and the players dispersed. Then the enigmatic cards would be burnt or defaced, a shroud would be draped over the table, and the grassgreen baize battlefield would soak up the blood of its victims and refresh itself. The Greek, after taking a third card, could achieve no better than a four to the bank's seven. 'Un banco dedeux millions,' said the coupier. The players on Bond's left remained silent. 'Banco,' said Bond. Le Chiffre looked incuriously at him, the whites of his eyes, which showed all round the irises, lending something impassive and doll-like to his gaze. He slowly removed one thick hand from the table and slipped it into the pocket of his dinner-jacket. The hand came out holding a small metal cylinder with a cap which Le Chiffre unscrewed. He inserted the nozzle of the cylinder, with an obscene deliberation, twice into each black nostril in turn, and luxuriously inhaled the benzedrine vapour. Unhurriedly he pocketed the inhaler; then his hand came quickly back, above the level of . the table and gave the shoe its usual hard, sharp slap. During this offensive pantomime Bond had coldly held the banker's gaze, taking in the wide expanse of white face surmounted by the short abrupt cliff of reddish brown hair, the unsmiling wet red mouth, and the  impressive width of the shoulders, loosely draped in a massively cut dinner-jacket. But for the high-lights on the satin of the shawl-cut lapels, he might have been faced by the thick bust of a black-fleeced Minotaur rising out of a green grass field. Bond slipped a packet of notes on to the table without counting them. If he lost, the croupier would extract what was necessary to cover the bet; but the easy gesture conveyed that Bond didn't expect to lose, and that this was only a token display from the deep funds at Bond's disposal. The other players sensed a tension between the two gamblers, and there was a silence as Le Chiffre fingered the four cards out of the shoe. The croupier slipped Bond's two cards across to him with the tip of his spatula. Bond, still with his eyes holding Le Chiffre's, reached his right hand out a few inches, glanced down very swiftly, then as he looked up again impassively at Le Chiffre, with a disdainful gesture he tossed the cards face upwards on the table. They were a four and a five-^an unbeatable nine. There was a little gasp of envy from the table, and the players to the left of Bond exchanged rueful glances at their failure to accept the two-million-franc bet. With the hint of a shrug, Le Chiffre slowly faced his own two cards and flicked them away with his fingernail. They were two valueless knaves. 'Le baccarat,' intoned the croupier as he spaded the thick chips over the table to Bond . Bond slipped them into his right-hand pocket with the unused packet of notes. His face showed no emotion, but he was pleased with the success of his first coup and with the outcome of the silent clash of wills across the : table. The woman on his left, the American Mrs. Du Pont, turned to him with a wry smile. 'I shouldn't have let it come to you,' she said. 'Di MOMENT OFTRUTH rectly the cards were dealt I kicked myself. ' 'It's only the beginning of the game/ said Bond. 'You may be right the next time you pass it. ' Mr. Du Pont leant forward from the other side of his wife: 'If one could be right every hand, none of us would be here, ' he said philosophically. 'I would be,' his wife laughed. 'You don't think I do this for pleasure.' As the game went on, Bond looked over the spectators leaning on the high brass rail round the table. He soon saw Le Chiffre's two gunmen. They stood behind and to either side of the banker. They looked respectable enough, but not sufficiently a part of the game to be unobtrusive, The one more or less behind Le Chiffre's right arm was tall and funereal in his dinner-jacket. His face was wooden and grey, but his eyes flickered and gleamed like a conjurer's. His whole long body was restless, and his hands shifted often on the brass rail. Bond guessed that he would kill without interest or concern for what he killed, and that he would prefer strangling. He had something of Lennie in Of Mice and Men, but his inhumanity would not come from infantilism but from drugs. Marihuana, decided Bond. The other man looked like a Corsican shopkeeper. He was short and very dark with a flat head covered with thickly greased hair. He seemed to be a cripple. A chunky Malacca cane with a rubber tip hung on a rail beside him. He must have had permission to bring the cane into the Casino with him, reflected Bond, who knew that neither sticks nor any other objects were allowed in the rooms as a precaution against acts of violence. He looked sleek and well fed. His mouth hung vacantly half open and revealed very bad teeth. He wore a heavy black moustache, and the backs of his hands on the rail were matted with black hair. Bond guessed that hair covered most of his squat body. Naked, Bond sup  posed, he would be an obscene object. The game continued uneventfully, but with a slight bias against the bank. The third coup is the 'sound barrier' at chemin-de-fer and baccarat. Your luck can defeat the first and second tests, but when the third deal comes along it most often spells disaster. Again and again at this point you find yourself being bounced back to earth. It was like that now. Neither the bank nor any of the players seemed to be able to get hot. But there was a steady and inexorable seepage against the bank, amounting after about two hours' play to ten million francs. Bond had no idea what profits Le Chiffre had made over the past two days. He estimated them at five million and guessed that now the banker's capital could not be more than twenty million. In fact, Le Chiffre had lost heavily all that afternoon. At this moment he only had ten million left. Bond, on the other hand, by one o'clock in the morning, had; won four million, bringing his resources up to twenty-eight million. Bond was cautiously pleased. Le Chiffre showed no trace of emotion. He continued to play like an automaton, never speaking except when he gave instructions in a low aside to the croupier at the opening of each new bank. Outside the pool of silence round the high table, there was the constant hum of the other tables, chemin-defer, roulette, and trente-et-quarante, interspersed with the clear calls of the croupiers and occasional bursts of laughter or gasps of excitement from different corners of the huge salle. In the background there thudded always the hidden metronome of the Casino, ticking up its little treasure of one-per-cents with each spin of a wheel and each turn of a card — a pulsing fat-cat with a zero for a heart. It was at ten minutes past one by Bond's watch that, at the high table, the" whole pattern of play suddenly altered. The Greek at Number was still having a bad time. He had lost the first coup of half a million francs and the second. He passed the third time, leaving a bank of two millions. Carmel Delane at Number refused it. So did Lady Danvers at Number 3. The Du Ponts looked at each other. 'Banco,' said Mrs. Du Pont, and promptly lost to the banker's natural eight. 'Un banco de quatre millions, ' said the croupier. 'Banco,' said Bond, pushing out a wad of notes. Again he fixed Le Chiffre with his eye. Again he gave only a cursory look at his two cards . 'No,' he said. He held a marginal five. The position was dangerous. Le Chiffre turned up a knave and a four. He gave the shoe another slap. He drew a three. 'Sept a la banque,' said the croupier, 'et cinq,' he added as he tipped Bond's losing cards face upwards. He raked over Bond's money, extracted four million francs and returned the remainder to Bond. 'Un banco de huit millions.' 'Suivi,' said Bond. And lost again, to a natural nine. In two coups he had lost twelve million francs. By scrapping the barrel, he had just sixteen million francs left,' exactly the amount of the next banco. Suddenly Bond felt the sweat on his palms. Like snow in sunshine his capital had melted. With the covetous deliberation of the winning gambler, Le Chiffre was tapping a light tattoo on the table with his right hand. Bond looked across into the eyes of murky basalt. They held an ironical question. 'Do you want the full treatment?' they seemed to ask. 'Suivi,' Bond said softly. He took some notes and plaques out of his right-hand pocket and the entire stack of notes out of his left and pushed them forward. There was no hint in his movements that this would be his last stake. His mouth felt suddenly as dry as flock wall-paper. He looked up and saw Vesper and Felix Leiter standing where the gunman with the stick had stood. He did not know how long they had been standing there. Leiter looked faintly worried, but Vesper smiled en' couragement at him.. He heard a faint rattle on the rail behind him and turned his head. The battery of bad teeth under the black moustache gaped vacantly back at him. 'Le jeu est fait,' said the croupier, and the two cards came slithering towards him over the green baize — a green baize which was no longer smooth, but thick now, and furry and almost choking^ its colour as livid as the grass on a fresh tomb. The light from the broad satin-lined shades which had seemed so welcoming now seemed to take the colour out of his hand as he glanced at the cards. Then he looked again. It was nearly as bad as it could have been — the king of hearts and an ace, the ace of spades. It squinted up at him like a black widow spider. 'A card.' He still kept all emotion out of his voice. Le Chiffre faced his own two cards. He had a queen and a black five. He looked at Bond and pressed out another card with a wide forefinger. The table was absolutely silent. He faced it and flicked it away. The croupier lifted it delicately with his spatula and slipped it over to Bond. It was a good card, the five of hearts, but to Bond it was a difficult fingerprint in dried blood. He now had a count of six and Le Chiffre a count of five, but the banker having a five and giving a five, would and must draw another card and try and improve with a one, two, three, or four. Drawing any other card he would be defeated.   The odds were on Bond's side, but now it was Le Chiffre who looked across into Bond's eyes and hardly glanced at the card as he flicked it face upwards on the table. It was, unnecessarily, the best, a four, giving the bank a count of nine. He had won, almost slowing up. Bond was beaten and cleaned out.   Bond sat silent, frozen with defeat. He opened his wide black case and took out a cigarette. He snapped open the tiny jaws of the Ronson and lit the cigarette and put the lighter back on the table. He took a deep lungful of smoke and expelled it between his teeth with a faint hiss. What now? Back to the hotel and bed, avoiding the commiserating eyes of Mathis and Leiter and Vesper: Back to the telephone call to London, and then tomorrow the plane home, the taxi up to Regent's Park, the walk up the .stairs and along the corridor, and M.'s cold face across the table, his forced sympathy, his 'Better luck next time'; and, of course, there couldn't be one, not another.chance like this. He looked round the table and up at the spectators. Few were looking at him. They were waiting while the croupier counted the money and piled up the chips in a neat stack in front of the banker, waiting to see if anyone would conceivably challenge this huge bank of thirty-two million francs, this wonderful run of banker's luck. Leiter had vanished, not wishing to look Bond in the eye after the knock-out, he supposed. Yet Vesper looked curiously unmoved, she gave him a smile of encouragement. But then, Bond reflected, she knew nothing of the game. Had no notion, probably, of the bitterness of his defeat. The huissier was coming towards Bond inside the rail. He stopped beside him. Bent over him. Placed a squat envelope beside Bond on the table. It was as thick as a dictionary. Said something about the caisse. Moved away again. Bond's heart thumped. He took the heavy anonymous envelope below the level of the table and slit it open with his thumbnail, noticing that the gum was still wet on the flap. Unbelieving and yet knowing it was true, he felt the broad wads of notes. He slipped them into his pockets, retaining the half-sheet of notepaper which was pinned to the topmost of them. He glanced at it in the shadow below the table. There was one line of writing in ink: 'Marshall Aid. Thirty-two million francs. With the compliments of the U.S.A.' Bond swallowed. He looked over towards Vesper. Felix Leiter was again standing beside her. He grinned slightly, and Bond smiled back and raised his hand from the table in a small gesture of benediction. Then he set his mind to sweeping away all traces of the sense of complete defeat which had swamped him a few minutes before. This was a reprieve, but only a reprieve. There could be no more miracles. This time he had to win— if Le Chif fre had not already made his fifty million — if he was going to go on! The croupier had completed his task of computing the cagnotte, changing Bond's notes into plaques, and making a pile of the giant stake in the middle of the table. There lay thirty-two thousand pounds. Perhaps, thought Bond, Le Chiffre needed just one more coup, even a minor one of a few million francs, to achieve his object. Then he would have made his fifty million francs and would leave the table. By tomorrow his deficits would be covered and his position secure. . He showed no signs of moving, and Bond guessed with relief that somehow he must have overestimated Le Chiffre' s resources. Then the only hope, thought Bond, was to stamp on him how. Not to share the bank with the table, or to take some minor r part of it, but to go the whole hog. This would really jolt Le Chiffre. He would hate to see more than ten or fifteen million of the stake covered, and he could not possibly expect anyone to banco the entire thirty-two millions. He might not know that Bond had been cleaned out, but he must imagine that Bond had by now only small reserves. He could not know of the contents of the envelope. If he did, he would probably withdraw the bank and start all over again on the wearisome journey up from the five hundred franc opening bet. The analysis was right. ! Le Chiffre needed another eight million. At last he nodded. 'Un banco de trente-deux millions.' The croupier's voice rang out. A silence built itself up round the table. . 'Un banco de trente-deux millions. ' / In a louder, prouder voice the chef de partie took up the cry, hoping to draw big money away from the neighbouring chemin-de-fer tables. Besides, this was wonderful publicity. The stake had only once been reached in the history of baccarat — at Deauville in 1950. The, rival Casino de la ForSt at Le Touquet had never got near it. It was then that Bond leant slightly forward. 'Suivi,' he said quietly.  THEDEADLYTUBE  There was an excited buzz round the table. The word ran through the Casino. People crowded in. Thirty-two million! For most of them it was more than they had earned all their lives. It was their savings and the savings of their families. It was, literally, a small fortune. One of the Casino directors consulted with the chef de partie. The chef de partie turned apologetically to Bond. 'Excusezmoi, monsieur. La mise?' ,. It was an indication that Bond really must show he had the money to coyer the bet. They knew, of course, that he was a very wealthy man, but after all, thirty-two millions! And it sometimes happened that desperate people would bet without a sou in the world and cheerfully go to prison if they lost. 'Mes excuses, Monsieur Bond,' added the chef de partie obsequiously. It was when Bond shovelled the great wad of notes out on to the table and the croupier busied himself with the task of counting the pinned sheaves of ten thousand franc notes, the largest denomination issued in France, that he caught a swift exchange of glances between Le Chiffre and the gunman standing directly behind Bond. Immediately he felt something hard press into the base of his spine, right into the cleft between his two buttocks on the padded chair. At the same time a thick voice speaking southern French said softly, urgently, just behind his right ear: 'This is a gun, monsieur. It is absolutely silent. It can blow the base of your spine off without a sound. You will appear to have fainted. I shall be gone. Withdraw your bet before I count ten. If you call for help I shall fire.' The voice Was confident. Bond believed it. These people had shown they would unhesitatingly go the limit. The thick walking stick was explained. Bond knew the type of gun. The barrel a series of soft rubber baffles which absorbed the detonation, but allowed the passage of the bullet. They had been invented and used in the  v. war for assassinations. Bond had tested them himself. 'Un,' said the voice. Bond turned his head. There was the man, leaning forward close behind him, smiling broadly under his black moustache as if he were wishing Bond luck, completely secure in the noise and the crowd. The discoloured teeth came together. 'Deux,' said the grinning mouth. Bond looked across. Le Chiffre was watching him. His eyes glittered back at Bond. His mouth was open, and he was breathing fast. He was waiting, waiting for Bond's hand to gesture to the croupier, or else for Bond suddenly to slump backwards in his chair, his face grimacing with a scream. 'Trois.' Bond looked over at Vesper and Felix Leiter. They were smiling and talking to each other. The fools. Where was Mathis? Where were those famous men of his? 'Quatre.' And the other spectators. This crowd of jabbering idiots. Couldn't someone see what was happening? The chef de partie, the croupier, the huissier? 'Cinq.' The croupier was tidying up the pile of notes. The chef de partie bowed smilingly towards Bond. Directly the stake was in order he would announce, 'Le jeux est fait,' and the gun would fire whether the gunman had reached ten or not. 'Six.' Bond decided. It was a chance. He carefully moved his hands to the edge of the table, gripped it, edged his buttocks right back, feeling the sharp gun-sight grind into his coccyx. 'Sept.' The chef de partie turned to Le Chiffre with his eyebrows lifted, waiting for the banker's nod that he was ready to play.  Suddenly Bond heaved backwards with all his strength. His momentum tipped the crossbar of the chair-back down so quickly that it cracked across the Malacca tube and wrenched it from the gunman's hand before he could pull the trigger. Bond went head-over-heels on to the ground amongst the spectators' feet, his legs in the air. The back of the chair splintered with the sharp crack. There were cries of dismay. The spectators cringed away and then, reassured, clustered back. Hands helped him to his feet and brushed him down. The huissier bustled up with the chef de partie. At all costs a scandal must be avoided. Bond held on to the brass rail. He looked confused and embarrassed. He brushed his hand across his forehead. 'A momentary faintness,' he said. 'It is nothing — the excitement, the heat. ' There were expressions of sympathy. Naturally, with this tremendous game. Would Monsieur prefer to withdraw, to lie down, to go home? Should a doctor be fetched? Bond shook his head. He was perfectly all right now. His excuses to the table. To the banker also. A new chair was brought and he sat down. He looked across at Le Chiffre. Through his relief at being alive, he felt a moment of triumph at what he saw— some fear in the fat, pale face. There was a buzz of speculation round the table. Bond's neighbours on both sides of him bent forward and spokefsolicitously about the heat and the lateness of the hour and the smoke and the lack of ain * V Bond replied politely. He turned to examine the crowd behind him. There was no trace of the gunman, but the huissier was looking for someone to claim the Malacca stick. It seemed undamaged. But it no longer carried a rubber tip. Bond beckoned to him. 'If you will give it to that gentleman over there' — he indicated Felix Leiter— 'he will return it. It belongs to an acquaintance of his.' The huissier bowed. Bond grimly reflected that a short examination would reveal to Leiter why he had made such an embarrassing public display of himself. He turned back to the table and tapped the green cloth in front of him to show that he was ready.    'La Partie continue,' announced the chef impressively, 'tin banco de trente-deux millions. ' ' The spectators craned forward. Le Chiffre hit the shoe with a flat-handed slap that made it rattle. As an afterthought he took out his benzedrine inhaler and sucked the vapour up his nose. '<•"• 'Filthy brute,' said Mrs. Du Pont on Bond's left. Bond's mind was clear again. By a miracle he had survived a devastating wound. He could feel his armpits still wet with the fear of it. But the success of his gambit with the chair had wiped out all memories of the dreadful valley of defeat through which he had just passed. He had made a fool of himself. The game had been interrupted for at least ten minutes, a delay unheard of • in a respectable casino, but now cards were waiting for him in the shoe. They must not fail him. He felt his heart lift at the prospect of what was to come, It was two o'clock in the morning. Apart from the thick crowd round the big game, play was still going on at three of the chemin-de-fer games and at the same number of roulette tables. In the silence round his own table, Bond suddenly heard a distant croupier intone: 'Neuf . Le rouge gagne, impair et manque.' Was this an omen for him or for Le Chiffre? The two cards slithered towards him across the green sea. Like an octopus under a rock, Le Chiffre watched him from the other side of the table. Bond reached out a steady right hand and drew the cards towards him. Would it be the lift of the heart which a nine brings, or an eight brings? He fanned the two cards under the curtain of his hand. The. muscles of his jaw rippled as he clenched his teeth. His whole body stiffened in a reflex of selfdefence. He had two queens, two red queens. They looked rougishly back at him from the shadows. They were the worst. They were nothing. Zero. Baccarat. 'A card, ' said Bond, fighting to keep hopelessness out of his voice. He felt Le Chiffre' s eyes boring into his brain. The banker slowly turned his own two cards face up. He had a count of three — a king and a black three. Bond softly exhaled a cloud of tobacco smoke. He still had a chance. Now he was really faced with the moment of truth. Le Chiffre slapped the shoe, slipped out a card, Bond's card, Bond's fate, and slowly turned it face up. It was a nine, a wonderful nine of hearts — the card known in gipsy magic as 'a whisper of love, a whisper of hate,' the card that meant almost certain victory for Bond. The croupier slipped it delicately across. To Le Chiffre it meant nothing. Bond might have had a one, in which case he now had ten points, or nothing, or    baccarat, as it is called. Or he might have had a two, three, four, or even five. In which case, with nine, his maximum count would be four. Holding a three and giving a nine is one of the moot situations at the game. The odds are so nearly divided between to draw or not to draw. Bond let the banker sweat it out. Since his nine could only be equalled by the banker drawing a six, he would normally have shown his count if it had been a friendly game. Bond's cards lay on the table before him, the two impersonal pale pink-patterned backs and the faced nine of hearts. To Le Chiffre the nine might be telling the > truth or many variations of lies. The whole secret lay in the reverse of the two pink backs where the pair of queens kissed the green cloth. The sweat was running down either side of the banker's beaky nose. His thick tongue came out slyly and licked a drop out of the corner of his red gash of a mouth. He looked at Bond's cards, and then at his own, and then back at Bond's. Then his whole body shrugged and he slipped out a card for himself from the lisping shoe. He faced it. The table craned. It was a wonderful card, a five. 'Huit a la banque,' said the croupier. > As Bond sat silent, Le Chiffre suddenly grinned wolfishly. He must have won. i The croupier's spatula reached almost apologetically across the table. There was not a man at the table who did not believe Bond was defeated. The spatula flicked the two pink cards over on their backs. The gay red queens smiled up at the lights. 'Etleneuf.' A great gasp went up round the table, and then a hubbub of talk. Bond's eyes were on Le Chiffre. The big man fell back in his chair as if slugged above the heart. His mouth opened and shut once or twice in protest, and his right hand felt at his throat. Then he rocked back. His lips were grey. As the huge stack of plaques was shunted across the table to Bond the banker reached into an inner pocket of his jacket and threw a wad of notes on to the table. The croupier riffled through them. 'Un banco de dix millions,' he announced. He slapped down their equivalent in ten plaques of a million each. This is the kill, thought Bond. This man has reached the point of no return. This is the last of his capital. He has come to where I stood an hour ago, and he is making the last gesture that I made. But if this man loses there is no one to come to his aid, no miracle to help him. Bond sat back arid lit a cigarette. On a small table beside him half a bottle of Clicquot and a glass had materialized. Without asking who the benefactor was, Bond filled the glass to the brim and drank it down in two long draughts. Then he leant back with his arms curled forward on the table in front of him like the arms of a wrestler seeking a hold at the opening of a bout of ju-jitsu. The players on his left remained silent. 'Banco,' he said, speaking straight at Le Chiffre. Once more the two cards were borne over to him, and this time the croupier slipped them into the green lagoon between the outstretched arms. Bond curled his right hand in, glanced briefly down and flipped the cards face up into the middle of the table. ' Le neuf , ' said the croupier. Le Chiffre was gazing down at his own two black kings. 'Et le baccarat,' and the croupier eased across the table the fat tide of plaques. Le Chiffre watched them go to join the serried millions in the shadow of Bond's left arm; then he stood    up slowly, and without a word he brushed past the players to the break in the rail. He unhooked the velvetcovered chain and let it fall. The spectators opened a way for him. They looked at him curiously and rather fearfully as if he carried the smell of death on him. Then he vanished from Bond's sight. Bond stood up. He took a hundred-mille plaque from the stacks beside him and slipped it across the table to the chef de partie. He cut short the effusive thanks and asked the croupier to have his winnings carried to the caisse. The other players were leaving their seats. With no banker, there could be no game, and by now it was half-past two. He exchanged some pleasant words with his neighbours to right and left and then ducked under the rail to where Vesper and Felix Leiter were waiting for him. Together they walked over to the caisse. Bond was invited to come into the private office of the Casino directors. On the desk lay his huge pile of chips. He added the contents of his pockets to it. In all there was over seventy million francs. Bond took Felix Leiter's money in notes and took a cheque to cash on the Credit Lyonnais for the remaining forty-odd million. He was congratulated warmly on his winnings. The directors hoped that he would be playing again that evening. Bond gave an evasive reply. He walked over to the bar and handed Leiter's money to him. For a few minutes they discussed the game over a bottle of champagne. Leiter took a .45 bullet out of his pocket and placed it on the table. 'I gave the gun to Mathis,' he said. 'He's taken it away. He Was as puzzled as we were by the spill you took. He was standing at the back of the crowd with one of his men when it happened. The gunman got away without difficulty. You can imagine how they kicked themselves when they saw the gun. Mathis gave me this bullet to show you what you escaped. The nose had been cut with a dum-dum cross. You'd have been in a terrible mess. But they can't tie it on to Le Chiffre. The man came in alone. They've got the form he filled up to get his entrance card. Of course, it'll all be phony. He got permission to bring the stick in with him. He had a certificate for a war-wound pension. These people certainly get themselves well organized. They've got his prints and they're on the Belinograph to Paris, so we may hear more about him in the morning.' Felix Leiter tapped out another cigarette. 'Anyway, all's well that ends well. You certainly took Le Chiffre for a ride at the end, though we had some bad moments. I expect you did too.' Bond smiled. 'That envelope was the most wonderful thing that ever happened to me. I thought I was really finished. It wasn't at all a pleasant feeling. Talk about a friend in need. One day I'll try and return the compliment.' He rose. 'I'll just go over to the hotel and put this away,' he said, tapping his pocket. 'I don't like wandering around with Le Chiffre' s death warrant on me. He might get ideas. Then I'd like to celebrate a bit. What do you think?' He turned to Vesper. She had hardly said a word since the end of the game. 'Shall we have a glass of champagne in the night club before we go to bed? It's called the Roi Galant. You get to it through the public rooms. It looks quite cheerful. ' T think I'd love to,' said Vesper. 'I'll tidy up while you put your winnings away. I'll meet you in the entrance hall.' 'What about you, Felix?' Bond hoped he could be alone with Vesper. Leiter looked at him and read his mind. 'I'd rather take a little rest before breakfast,' he said. 'It's been quite a day, and I expect Paris will want me to do a bit of mopping-up tomorrow. There are several loose ends you won't have to worry about. I shall. I'll    walk over to the hotel with you. Might as well convoy the treasure ship right into port.' They strolled over through the shadows cast hy the full moon. Both had their hands on their guns. It was three o'clock in the morning, but there were several people about and the courtyard of the Casino was still lined with motorcars. The short walk was uneventful. At the hotel, Leiter insisted on accompanying Bond to his room. It was as Bond had left it six hours before. 'No reception committee,' observed Leiter, 'but I wouldn't put it past them to try a last throw. Do you think I ought to stay up and keep you two company? ' 'You get your sleep,' said Bond. 'Don't worry about us. They won't be interested in me without the money and I've got an idea for looking after that. Thanks for all you've done. I hope we get on a job again one day. ' 'Suits me,' said Leiter, 'so long as you can draw a nine when it's needed — and bring Vesper along with you, ' he added dryly. He went out and closed the door. Bond turned back to the friendliness of his room. After the crowded arena of the big table and the nervous strain of the three hours' play, he was glad to be alone for a moment and to be welcomed by his pyjamas on the bed and his hairbrushes on the dressing-table. He went into the bathroom and dashed cold water over his face and gargled with a sharp mouthwash. He felt the bruises on the back of his head and on his right shoulder. He reflected cheerfully how narrowly he had twice that day escaped being murdered. Would he have to sit up all that night and wait for them to come again, or was Le Chiffre even now on his way to Le Havre or Bordeaux to pick up a boat for some corner of the world where he could escape the eyes and guns of SMERSH? Bond shrugged his shoulders. Sufficient unto that day had been its evil. He gazed for a moment into the mirror and wondered about Vesper's morals. He wanted her cold and arrogant body. He wanted to see tears and desire in her remote blue eyes and to take the ropes of her black hair in his hands and bend.her long body back under his. Bond's eyes narrowed, and his face in the mirror looked back at him with hunger. He turned away and took out of his pocket the cheque for forty million francs. He folded this very small. Then he opened the door and looked up and down the corridor. He left the door wide open and with his ears cocked for footsteps or the sound of the lift, he set to work with a small screwdriver. Five minutes later he gave a last-minute survey to his handiwork, put some fresh cigarettes in his case, closed and locked the door, and went off down the corridor and across the hall and out into the moonlight.  'La Vie en Rose?'  The entrance to the Roi Galant was a seven-foot golden picture-frame which had once, perhaps, enclosed the vast portrait of a noble European. It was in a discreet corner of the 'kitchen' — the public roulette and boule room, where several tables were still busy. As Bond took Vesper's arm and led her over the gilded step, he fought back a hankering to borrow some money from the caisse and plaster maximums over the nearest table. But he knew that this would be a brash and cheap gesture 'pour Spater la bourgeoisie. ' Whether he won or lost, it would be a kick in the teeth to the luck which had been given him. The night club was small and dark, lit only by candles in gilded candelabra whose warm light was repeated in wall mirrors set in more gold picture-frames. The walls were covered in dark red satin, and the chairs and banquettes in matching red plush. In the far corner, a trio, consisting of a piano, an electric guitar, and drums, was playing 'La Vie en Rose' with muted sweet ness. Seduction dripped on the quietly throbbing air. It seemed to Bond that every couple must be touching with passion under the tables. They were given a corner table near the door. Bond ordered a bottle of Veuve Clicquot and scrambled eggs and bacon. They sat for a time listening to the music, and then Bond turned to Vesper: 'It's wonderful sitting here with you and knowing the job's finished. It's a lovely end to the day — the prize-giving.' He expected her to smile. She said, 'Yes, isn't it?' in a rather brittle voice. She seemed to be listening carefully to the music. One elbow rested on the table, and her hand supported her chin, but on the back of her hand and not on the palm; and Bond noticed that her knuckles showed white as if her fist was tightly clenched. Between the thumb and first two fingers of her right hand she held one of Bond's cigarettes, as an artist holds a crayon; and though she smoked with composure she tapped the cigarette occasionally into an ashtray when the cigarette had no ash. Bond noticed these small things because he felt intensely aware of her and because he wanted to draw her into his own feeling of warmth and relaxed sensuality. But he accepted her reserve. He thought it came from a desire to protect herself from him, or else it was her reaction to his coolness to her earlier in the evening, his deliberate coolness, which he knew had been taken as a rebuff. He was patient. He drank champagne and talked a little about the happenings of the day and about the personalities of Mathis and Leiter and about the possible consequences for Le Chiffre. He was discreet, and he only talked about the aspects of the case on which she must have been briefed by London. She answered perfunctorily'. She said that, of course, they had picked out the two gunmen, but had thought  'LA VIE EN ROSE?' nothing of it when the man with the stick had gone to stand behind Bond's chair. They could not believe that anything would be attempted in the Casino itself. Directly Bond and Leiter had left to walk over to the hotel, she had telephoned Paris and told M.'s representative of the result of the game. She had had to speak guardedly, and the agent had rung off without comment. She had been told to do this whatever the result. M. had asked for the information to be passed on to him personally at any time of the day or night. This was all she said. She sipped at her champagne and rarely glanced at Bond. She didn't smile. Bond felt frustrated. He drank a lot of champagne and ordered another bottle. The scrambled eggs came, and they ate in silence. At four o'clock Bond was about to call for the bill when the maltre d'hStel appeared at their table and inquired for Miss Lynd. He handed her a note which she took and read hastily. 'Oh, it's only Mathis,' she said. 'He says would T come to the entrance hall. He's got a message for you. Perhaps he's not in evening clothes or something. I Won't be a minute. Then perhaps we could go home.' She gave him a strained smile. 'I'm afraid I don't feel very good company this evening. It's been rather a nerve-racking day, I'm so sorry.' Bond made a perfunctory reply and rose, pushing back the table. 'I'll get the bill,' he said, and watched her take the few steps to the entrance. He sat down and lit a cigarette. He felt flat. He suddenly realized that he was tired. The stuffiness of the room hit him as it had hit him in the Casino in the early hours of the previous day. He called for the bill and took a last mouthful of champagne. It tasted bitter, as the first glass too many always does. He would have liked to see Mathis' s cheerful face and hear his news, perhaps even a word of congratulation. Suddenly the note to Vesper seemed odd to him. It was not the way Mathis would do things. He would have asked them both to join him at the bar of the Casino, or he would have joined them in the night club, whatever his clothes. They would have laughed together, and Mathis would have been excited. He had much to tell Bond, more than Bond had to tell him: the arrest of the Bulgarian, who had probably talked some more; the chase after the man with the stick; Le Chiffre's movements when he left the Casino. Bond shook himself. He hastily paid the bill, not waiting for the change. He pushed back his table and walked quickly through the entrance without acknowledging the good-nights of the maltre d'hdtel and the doorman. He hurried through the gaming-room and looked carefully up and down the long entrance hall. He cursed and quickened his step. There were only one or two officials and two or three men and women in evening clothes getting their things at the vestiaire. No Vesper. No Mathis. He was almost running. He got to the entrance and looked along the steps to the left and right down and amongst the few remaining cars. The commissionaire came towards him. 'A taxi, monsieur?' Bond waved him aside and started down the steps, his eyes staring into the shadows, the night air cold on his sweating temples. He was halfway down when he heard a faint cry, then the slam of a door away to the right. With a harsh growl and stutter from the exhaust a beetle-browed Citroen shot out of the shadows into the light of the moon, its frontwheel drive dry-skidding through the loose pebbles of the forecourt. Its tail rocked on its soft springs as if a violent struggle was taking place on the back seat. With a snarl it raced out to the wide entrance gate in a spray of gravel. A small blackobject shot out of an  'LA VIE EN ROSE?' open rear window and thudded into a flower-bed. There was a scream of tortured rubber as the tyres caught the boulevard in a harsh left-handed turn, the deafening echo of a Citroen' s exhaust in second gear, a crash into top, then a swiftly diminishing crackle as the car hared off between the shops on the main street towards the coast-road. Bond knew he would find Vesper's evening bag among the flowers. He ran back with it across the gravel to the brightly lit steps and scrabbled through its contents while the commissionaire hovered round him. The crumpled note was there amongst the usual feminine baggage: 'Can you come out to the entrance hall for a moment? I have news for your companion. Rene Mathis.' Black Hare and Grey Hound  It was the crudest possible forgery. Bond leapt for the Bentley, blessing the impulse , which had made him drive it over after dinner. With the choke full out the engine answered at once to the starter, and the roar drowned the faltering words of the commissionaire who jumped aside as the rear wheels whipped gravel at his piped trouser-legs. As the car rocked to the left outside the gate, Bond ruefully longed for the front-wheel drive and low chassis of the Citroen. Then he went fast through the gears and settled himself for the pursuit, briefly savouring the echo of the huge exhaust as it came back at him from either side of the short main street through the town. Soon he was out on the coast-road, a broad highway through the sand-dunes which he knew from his morning's drive had an excellent surface and was well cat' seyed on the bends. He pushed the revs up and up, hurrying the car to eighty then to . ninety, his huge Marchai headlights boring a safe white tunnel, nearly BLACK HARE AND GREY HOUND half a mile long, between the walls of the night. He knew the Citroen must have come this way. He had heard the exhaust penetrate beyond the town, and a little dust still hung on the bends. He hoped soon to see the distant shaft of its headlights. The night was still and clear. Only out at sea there must be a light summer mist, for at intervals he could hear the foghorns lowing like iron cattle down the coast. As he drove, whipping the car faster and faster through the night, with the other half of his mind he cursed Vesper, and M. for having sent her on the job. This was just what he had been afraid of. These blithering women who thought they could do a man's work. Why the hell couldn't they stay at home and mind v their pots and pans and stick to their frocks and gossip and leave men's work to the men? And now for this to happen to him, just when the job had come off so beautifully: for Vesper to fall for an old trick like that and get herself snatched and probably held to ransom like some bloody heroine in a strip cartoon. The silly bitch. -Bond boiled at the thought of the fix he was in. Of course. The idea was a straight swap. The girl against his cheque for forty million. Well, he wouldn't play: wouldn't think of playing. She was in the Service and knew what she was up against. He wouldn't even ask M. This job was more important than her. It was just too bad. She was a fine girl, but he wasn't going to fall for this childish trick. No dice. He would try and catch the Citroen and shoot it out with them; and if she got shot in the process that was too bad too. He would have done his stuff — tried to rescue her before they got her off to some hide-out — but if he didn't catch up with them he would get back to his hotel and go to sleep and say no more about it. The next morning he would ask Mathis what had happened to her and show him the note. If Le Chiffre put the touch on Bond for the money in exchange for the girl, Bond would do nothing and tell no one. The girl would just have to take it. If the commissionaire came along with the story of what he had seen, Bond would bluff it out by saying he had had a drunken row with the girl. Bond's mind raged furiously on with the problem as he flung the great car down the coast-road, automatically taking the curves and watching out for carts or cyclists on their way to Royale. On straight stretches the Amherst Villiers supercharger dug spurs into the Bentley's twenty-five horses, and the engine sent a high-pitched scream of pain into the night. Then the revolutions mounted until he was past and on to the m. p. h. mark on the speedometer. He knew he must be gaining fast. Loaded as she was, the Citroen could hardly better eighty even on this road. On an impulse he slowed down to seventy, turned on his foglights, and dowsed the twin-Marchals. Sure enough, without the blinding curtain of his own lights, he could see the glow of another car a mile or two down the coast. He felt under the dashboard and from a concealed holster took out a longbarrelled Colt Army Special .45 and laid it on the seat beside him. With this, if he was lucky with the surface of the road, he could hope to get their tyres or their petrol tank at anything up to a hundred yards. Then he switched on the big lights again and screamed off in pursuit. He felt calm and at ease. The problem of Vesper's life was a problem no longer. His face in the blue light from the dashboard was grim but serene. Ahead in the Citroen there were three men and the girl. Le Chiffre was driving, his big fluid body hunched forward, his hands light and delicate on the wheel. Beside him sat the squat man who had carried the stick in the Casino. In his left hand he grasped a thick lever which protruded beside him almost level with the floor.  BLACK HARE AND GREY HOUND It might have been ; a lever to adjust the driving-seat. In the back seat was the tall thin gunman. He lay back, relaxed, gazing at the ceiling, apparently uninterested in the wild speed of the car. His right hand lay caressingly on Vesper's left thigh which stretched out naked beside him. 'Apart from her legs, which were naked to the hips. Vesper was only a parcel. Her long black velvet skirt had been lifted over her arms and head and tied above her head with a piece of rope. Where her face was, a small gap had been torn in the velvet so that she could breathe. She was not bound in any other way, and she lay quiet, her body moving sluggishly with the swaying of the car. Le Chiffre was concentrating half on the road ahead and half on the onrushingglare of Bond's headlights in the driving mirror. He seemed undisturbed when not more than a mile separated the hare from the hounds,' and he even brought the car down from eighty to sixty miles an hour. Now, as he swept round a bend he slowed down still further. A few hundred yards ahead a Michelin post showed where a small parochial road , crossed with the highway. 'Attention,' he said sharply to the man beside him. The man's hand tightened on the lever. A hundred yards from the crossroads he slowed to thirty. In the mirror Bond's great headlights were lighting up the bend. j. Le Chiffre seemed to make up his mind. 'Allez.' The man beside him pulled the lever sharply upwards. The boot at the back of the car yawned open like a whale's mouth. There was a tinkling clatter on the road and then a rhythmic jangling as if the car was towing lengths of chain behind it. 'Coupez.' The man depressed the lever sharply and the jangling stopped with a final clatter. ( Le Chiffre glanced again in the mirror. Bond's car was just entering the bend. Le Chiffre made a racing change and threw the Citroen left-handed down the narrow side-road, at the same time dowsing his lights. He stopped the car with a jerk, and all three men got swiftly out and doubled back under cover of a low hedge to the crossroads, now fiercely illuminated by the lights of the Bentley. Each of them carried a revolver, and the thin man also had what looked like a large egg in his right hand. The Bentley screamed down towards them like an express train.  The Crawling of the Skin  As Bond hurtled round the bend, caressing the great car against the camber with an easy sway of body and hands, he was working out his plan of action when the distance between the two cars should narrow still further. He imagined that the enemy driver would try to dodge off into a side-road if he got the chance. So when he had got found the bend and saw no lights ahead, it was a normal reflex to ease up on the accelerator and, when he saw the Michelin post, to prepare to brake. He was only doing about sixty as he approached the black patch across the right-hand crown of the road which he assumed to be the shadow cast by a wayside tree. Even so, there was no time to save himself. There was suddenly a small carpet of glinting steel spikes right under his off-side wing. Then he was on top of it. Bond automatically slammed the brakes full on and braced all his sinews against the wheel to correct the inevitable sharp slew to the left, but he only kept control for a split second. As the rubber was flayed from his  off-side wheels and the rims for an instant tore up the tarmac, the heavy car whirled across the road in a tearing dry skid, slammed the left bank with a crash that knocked Bond out of the driving seat on to the floor; and then, facing back up the road, it reared slowly up, its front wheels spinning and its great headlights searching the sky. For a split second, resting on the petrol tank, it seemed to paw at the heavens like a giant praying-mantis. Then slowly it toppled over backwards and fell with a splintering crash of coachwork and glass. In the deafening silence, the near-side front wheel whispered briefly on and then squeaked to a stop. Le Chiffre and his two men only had to walk a few yards from their ambush. 'Put your guns away and get him out,' he ordered brusquely. 'I'll keep you covered. Be careful of him. I don't want a corpse. And hurry up, it's getting light.' The two men got down on their knees. One of them took out a long knife and cut some of the fabric away from the side of the convertible hood and took hold of Bond's shoulders. He was unconscious and immovable. The other squeezed between the up-turned car and the bank and forced his way through the crumpled windowframe. He eased Bond's legs, pinned between the steering wheel and the fabric roof of the car. Then they inched him out through a hole in the hood. They were sweating and filthy with dust and oil by the time they had him lying in the road. The thin man felt his heart and then slapped his face hard on either side. Bond grunted and moved a hand. The thin man slapped him again. 'That's enough,' said Le Chiffre. 'Tie his arms, and put him in the car. Here.' He threw a roll of flex to the man. 'Empty his pockets first and give me his gun. He may have got some other weapons, but we can get them later.' He took the objects the thin man handed him and  stuffed them and Bond's Beretta into his wide pockets without examining them. He left the men to it and walked back to the car. His face showed neither pleasure nor excitement. It was the sharp bite of the wire flex into his wrists that brought Bond to himself. He was aching all over as if he had been thrashed with a wooden club; but when he was yanked to his feet and pushed towards the narrow side-road where the engine of the Citrogn was already running softly, he found that no bones were broken. But he felt in no mood for desperate attempts to escape and allowed himself to be dragged into the back seat of the car without resisting. He felt thoroughly dispirited and weak in resolve as well as in his body. He had had to take too much in the past twenty-four hours and now this last stroke by the enemy seemed almost too final. This time there could be no miracles. No one knew where he was and no one would miss him until well on into the morning. The wreck of his car would be found before very long, but it would take hours to trace the ownership to him. And Vesper. He looked to the right, past the thin man who was lying back with his eyes closed. His first reaction was one of scorn. Damn fool girl getting herself trussed up like a chicken, having her skirt pulled over her head as if the whole of this business was some kind of dormitory rag. But then he felt sorry for her. Her naked legs looked so childlike and defenceless. 'Vesper,' he said softly. There was no answer from the bundle in the corner, and Bond suddenly had a chill feeling; but then she stirred slightly. At the same time the thin man caught him a hard back-handed blow over the heart . 'Silence.' Bond doubled over with pain and to shield himself from another blow, only to get a rabbit punch on the back of the neck which made him arch back again, the breath whistling through his teeth. The thin man had hit him a hard professional cutting blow with the edge of the hand. There was something rather deadly about his accuracy and his lack of effort. He was now again lying back, his eyes closed. He was a man to make you afraid, an evil man. Bond hoped he might get a chance of killing him. Suddenly the boot of the car was thrown open, and there was a clanking crash. Bond guessed that they had beert waiting for the third man to retrieve the carpet of spiked chain-mail. He assumed it must be an adaptation of the nail-studded devices used by the Resistance against German staff-cars. Again he reflected on the efficiency of these people and the ingenuity of the equipment they used. Had M. underestimated their resourcefulness? He stifled a desire to place the blame on London. It was he who should have known. He who should have been warned by small signs and taken infinitely more precautions. He squirmed as he thought of himself washing down champagne in the Roi Galant while the enemy was busy preparing his counterstroke. He cursed himself and cursed the hubris which had made him so sure that the battle was won and the enemy in flight. All this time Le Chiffre had said nothing. Directly the boot was shut, the third man, whom Bond at once recognized, climbed in beside him, and Le Chiffre reversed furiously back on the main road. Then he banged the gear lever through the gate and was soon doing seventy on down the coast. By now it was dawn — about five o'clock, Bond guessed — and he reflected that a mile or two on was the turning to Le Chiffre's villa. He had not thought that they would take Vesper there. Now that he realized that Vesper had only been a sprat to catch a mackerel the whole picture became clear. It was an extremely unpleasant picture. For the first  time since his capture, fear came to Bond and crawled up his spine. Ten minutes later the Citroen lurched to the left, ran on a few hundred yards up a small side road partly overgrown with grass and then between a pair of dilapidated stucco pillars into an unkempt forecourt surrounded by a high wall. They drew up in front of a peeling white door. Above a rusty bell-push in the doorframe, small zinc letters on a wooden base spelled out 'Les Noctambules' and, underneath 'SonnezSVP.' From what Bond could see of the cement frontage, the villa was typical of the French seaside style. He could imagine the dead bluebottles being hastily swept out for the summer let and the stale rooms briefly aired by a cleaning woman sent by the estate agent in Royale. Every five years one coat of whitewash would be slapped over the rooms and the outside woodwork, and for a few weeks the villa would present a smiling front to the world. Then the winter rains would get to work, and the imprisoned flies, and quickly the villa would take on again its abandoned look. But, Bond reflected, it would admirably serve Le Chiffre's purpose this morning, if he was right in assuming what that was to be. They had passed no other house since his capture, and from his reconnaissance of the day before he knew there was only an occasional farm for several miles to the south. As he was urged out of the car with a sharp crack in the ribs , from the thin man's elbow, he knew that Le Chiffre could have them both to himself, undisturbed, for several hours. Again his skin crawled. Le Chiffre opened the door with a key and disappeared inside. Vesper, looking incredibly indecent in the early light of day, was pushed in after him with a torrent of lewd French from the man whom Bond knew to himself as 'the Corsican.' Bond followed without giving the thin man a chance to urge him. The key of the front door turned in the lock. Le Chiffre was standing in the doorway of a room on the right. He crooked a finger at Bond in a silent, spidery summons. Vesper was being led down a passage towards the back of the house. Bond suddenly decided. With a wild backward kick which connected with the thin man's shins and brought a whistle of pain from him, he hurled himself down the passage after her. With only his feet as weapons, there was no plan in his mind except to do as much damage as possible to the two gunmen and be able to exchange a few hurried words with the girl. No other plan was possible. He just wanted to tell her not to give in. As the Corsican turned at the commotion Bond was on him and his right shoe was launched in a flying kick at the other man's groin. Like lightning the Corsican slammed himself back against the wall of the passage and, as Bond's foot whistled past his hip, he very quickly, but somehow delicately, shot out his left hand, caught Bond's shoe at the top of its arc and twisted it sharply. Completely off balance, Bond's other foot left the ground. In the air his whole body turned and with the momentum of his rush behind it crashed sideways and down on to the floor. For a moment he lay there, all the breath knocked out of him. Then the thin man came and hauled him up against the wall by his collar. He had a gun in his hand. He looked Bond inquisitively in the eyes, Then unhurriedly he bent down and swiped the barrel viciously across Bond's shins. Bond grunted and caved at the knees. 'If there is a next time, it will be across your teeth,' said the thin man in bad French. A door slammed. Vesper and the Corsican had disappeared. Bond turned his head to the right. Le Chiffre had moved a few feet out into the passage. He lifted his  finger and crooked it again. Then for the first time he spoke. 'Come, my dear friend. We are wasting our time.' He spoke in English with no accent. His voice was low and soft and unhurried. He showed no emotion. He might have been a doctor summoning the next patient from the waiting-room, a hysterical patient who had been expostulating feebly with a nurse. Bond again felt puny and impotent. Nobody but an expert in ju-jitsu could have handled him with the Corsican's economy and lack of fuss. The cold precision with which the thin man had paid him back in his own coin had been equally unhurried, even artistic. Almost docilely Bond walked back down the passage. He had nothing but a few more bruises to show for his clumsy gesture o f resistance to these people . As he preceded the thin man over the threshold he knew that he was utterly and absolutely in their power. It was a large bare room, sparsely furnished in cheap French 'art nouveau' style. It was difficult to say whether it was intended as a livingor dining-room, for a flimsy-looking mirrored sideboard, sporting an orange crackle-ware fruit dish and two painted wooden candlesticks, took up most of the wall opposite the door and contradicted the faded pink sofa ranged against the other side of the room. There was no table in the centre under the alabasterine ceiling light, only a small square of stained carpet with a futurist design in contrasting browns. Over by the window was an incongruous-looking throne-like chair in carved oak with a red velvet seat, a low table on which stood an empty water carafe and two glasses, and a light armchair with a round cane seat and no cushion. Half-closed Venetian blinds obscured the view from the window, but cast bars of early sunlight over the few pieces of furniture and over part of the brightly papered ' wall and the brown-stained floorboards. Le Chif fre pointed at the cane chair. 'That will do excellently,' he said to the thin man. 'Prepare him quickly. If he resists, damage him only a little.' He turned to Bond. There was no expression on his large face, and his round eyes were uninterested. 'Take off your clothes. For every effort to resist, Basil will break one of your fingers. We are serious people, and your good health is of no interest to us. Whether you live or die depends on the outcome of the talk we are about to have.' He made a gesture toward the thin man and left the room. The thiri man's first action was a curious one. He opened the clasp-knife he had used on the hood of Bond's car, took the small armchair, and with a swift motion cut out its cane seat. Then he came back to Bond, sticking the still open knife, like a fountain pen, in the vest pocket of his coat. He turned Bond round to the light and unwound the flex from his wrists. Then he stood quickly aside, and the knife was back in his right hand. 'Vite.' Bond stood chafing his swollen wrists and debating with himself how much time he could waste by resisting. He only delayed an instant. With a swift step and a downward sweep of his free hand, the thin man seized the collar of his dinner jacket and dragged it down, pinning Bond's arms back. Bond made the traditional counter to this old policeman's hold by dropping down on one knee; but as he dropped the thin man dropped with him and at the same time brought his knife round and down behind Bond's back. Bond felt the back of the blade pass down his spine. There was the hiss of a sharp knife through cloth and his arms were suddenly free as the two halves of his coat fell forward. He cursed and stood up. The thin man was back in his . previous position, his knife again at the ready in his relaxed hand. Bond let the two halves of his dinner jacket fall off his arms on to the floor. 'Allez,' said the thin man with a faint trace of impatience. Bond looked him in the eye and then slowly started to take off his shirt. Le Chiffre came quietly back into the room. He carried a pot of what smelt like coffee. He put it on the small table near the window. He also placed beside it on the table two other homely objects, a three-foot-long carpet-beater in twisted cane and a carving-knife. He settled himself comfortably on the thronelike chair and poured some of the coffee into one of the glasses. With one foot he hooked forward the small armchair, whose seat was now an empty circular frame of wood, until it was directly opposite him. Bond stood stark naked in the middle , of the room, bruises showing livid on his white body, his face a grey mask of exhaustion and knowledge of what was to come. 'Sit down there.' Le Chiffre nodded at the chair in front of him. Bond walked over and sat down. The thin man produced some flex. With this he bound Bond's wrists to the arms of the chair and his ankles to the front legs. He passed a double strand across his chest, under the arrnpits and through the chair-back. He made no mistakes with the knots and left no play in any of the bindings. All of them bit sharply into Bond's flesh. The legs of the chair were broadly spaced and Bond could not even rock it. He was utterly a prisoner, naked and defenceless. His buttocks and the underpart of his body protruded through the seat of the chair towards the floor. Le Chiffre nodded to the thin man, who quietly left the room and closed the door. There was a packet of Gauloises on the table and a lighter. Le Chiffre lit a cigarette and\ mouthful of coffee from the glass. Then the cahe carpet-beater and, resting the h fortably on his knee, allowed the flat trefoilX ^ ne on the floor directly under Bond's chair. He looked Bond carefully, almost caressingly in the eyes. Then his wrist sprang suddenly upwards on his knee. The result was startling. Bond's whole body arched in an involuntary spasm. His face contracted in a soundless scream, and his lips drew right away from his teeth. At the same time his head flew back with a jerk showing the taut sinews of his neck. For an instant, muscles stood out in knots all over his body, and his toes and fingers clenched until they were quite white. Then his body sagged, and perspiration started to bead all over his skin. He uttered a deep groan. — Le Chiffre Waited for his eyes to open. 'You see, dear boy?' He smiled a soft, fat smile. 'Is the position quite clear now? ' A drop of sweat fell off Bond's chin on to his naked chest. 'Now let us get down to business and see how soon we can be finished with this unfortunate mess you have got yourself into.' He puffed cheerfully at his cigarette and gave an admonitory tap on the floor beneath Bond's chair with his horrible and incongruous instrument. — Le Chiffre spoke like a father — 'the game of Red Indians is over, quite over. You have stumbled by mischance into a game for grown-ups, and you have already found it a painful experience. You are not equipped, , to play games with adults; and it was very foolish of your nanny in London to have sent you out here with your spade and bucket. Very foolish indeed, and most unfortunate for you. 'But we must stop joking, my dear fellow, although I am sure you would like to follow me in developing this  . jPJ^autionary tale, 'emy dropped his bantering tone and looked at Bond sharply and venomously. Where is the money? ' Bond's bloodshot eyes looked emptily back at him. Again the upward jerk of the wrist, and again Bond's whole body writhed and contorted. Le Chiffre waited until the tortured heart eased down its laboured pumping and until Bond's eyes dully opened again. 'Perhaps I should explain,' said Le Chiffre. 'I intend to continue attacking the sensitive parts of your body until you answer my question. I am without mercy, and there will be no relenting. There is no one to stage a lastminute rescue, and there is no possibility of escape for you. This is not a romantic adventure story in which the villain is finally routed and the hero is given a medal and marries the girl. Unfortunately these things don't happen in real life. If you continue to be obstinate, you will be tortured to the edge of madness, and then the girl will be brought in and we will set about her in front of you. If that is still not enough, you will both be painfully killed, and I shall reluctantly leave your bodies and make my way abroad to a comfortable house which is waiting for me. There I shall take up a useful and profitable career and live to a' ripe and peaceful old age in the bosom of the family I shall doubtless create. So you see, , that I stand to lose nothing. If you hand the money over, so much the better. If not, I shall shrug my shoulders and be on my way. ' He paused, and his wrist lifted slightly on his knee. Bond's flesh cringed as the cane surface just touched him. 'But you, my dear fellow, can only hope that I shall spare you further pain and spare your life. There is no other hope for you but that. Absolutely none. 'Well?' Bond closed his eyes and waited for the pain. He  knew that the beginning of torture is the worst. There is a parabola of agony. A crescendo leading up to a peak, and then the nerves are blunted and react progressively less until unconsciousness and death. All he could do was to pray for the peak, pray that his spirit would hold out so long and then accept the long free-wheel down to the final blackout. He had been told by colleagues who had survived torture by the Germans and the Japanese that towards the end there came a wonderful period of warmth and languor leading into a sort of sexual twilight where pain turned to pleasure and where hatred and fear of the tortures turned to a masochistic infatuation. It was the . supreme test of will, he had learnt, to avoid showing this form of punch-drunkenness. Directly it was suspected they would either kill you at once and save themselves N further useless effort, or let you recover sufficiently for your nerves to creep back to the other side of the parabola. Then they would start again. He opened his eyes a fraction. Le Chiffre had been waiting for this, and like a rattlesnake the cane instrument leapt up from the floor. It struck again and again so that Bond screamed and his body jangled in the chair like a marionette. Le Chiffre desisted only when Bond's tortured spasms showed a trace of sluggishness. He sat for a while sipping his coffee and frowning slightly like a surgeon watching a cardiograph during a difficult operation. When Bond's eyes flickered and opened he addressed him again, but now with a trace of impatience. 'We know that the money is somewhere in your room,' he said. 'You drew a cheque to cash for forty ,/ million francs, and I know that you went back to the hotel to hide it.' For a moment Bond wondered how he had been so certain. 'Directly you left for the night club,' continued Le Chiffre, 'your room was searched by four of my people.' The Muntzes must have helped, reflected Bond. 'We found a good deal in childish hiding-places. The ball-cock in the lavatory yielded an interesting little code-book, -and we found some more of your papers taped to the back of a drawer. All the furniture has been taken to pieces, and your clothes and the curtains and bedclothes have been cut up. Every inch of the room has been searched, and all the fittings removed. It is most unfortunate for you that we didn't find the cheque. If we had, you would now be comfortably in bed, perhaps with the beautiful Miss Lynd, instead of this.' He lashed upwards. Through the red mist of pain, Bond thought of Vesper. He could imagine how she was being used by the two gunmen. They would be making the most of her before she was sent for by Le Chiffre. He thought of the fat wet lips of the Corsican and the slow cruelty of the thin man. Poor wretch to have been dragged into this. Poor little beast. Le Chiffre was talking again. 'Torture is a terrible thing,' he was saying as he puffed at a fresh cigarette, 'but it is a simple matter for the torturer, particularly when the patient' — he smiled at the word — 'is a man. You see, my dear Bond, with a man it is quite unnecessary to indulge in refinements. With this simple instrument, or with almost any other object, one can cause a man as much pain as is possible or necessary. Do not believe what you read in novels or books about the war. There is nothing worse. It is not only the immediate agony, but also the thought that your manhood is being gradually destroyed and that at the end, if you will not yield, you will no longer be a man. 'That, my dear Bond, is a sad and terrible thought — a long chain of agony for the body and also for the mind, and then the final screaming moment when you will beg  me to kill you. All that is inevitable unless you tell me where you hid the money. ' He poured some more coffee into the glass and drank it down, leaving brown corners to his mouth. Bond's lips were writhing. He was trying to say something. At last he got the word out in a harsh croak: 'Drink,' he said and his tongue came out and swilled across his dry lips. . 'Of course, , how thoughtless of me!' Le Chiffre poured some coffee into the other glass. There was a ring of sweat drops on the floor all around Bond's chair. v 'We must certainly keep your tongue lubricated.' He laid the handle of the carpet-beater down on the floor between his thick legs and rose from his chair. He went behind Bond and taking a handful of his soaking hair in one hand, he wrenched Bond's, head sharply back. He poured the coffee down Bond's throat in small mouthfuls so that he would not choke. Then he released his head so that it fell forward again on his chest. He went back to his chair and picked up the carpet-beater. Bond raised his head and spoke thickly. 'Money no good to you.' His voice was a laborious croak. 'Police trace it to you.' Exhausted by the effort, his head sank forward again. He was a little, but only a little, exaggerating the extent of his physical collapse. Anything to gain time, aind anything to defer the next searing pain. 'Ah, my dear fellow, I had forgotten to tell you.' Le Chiffre smiled wolfishly. 'We met after our little game at the Casino, and you were such a sportsman that you agreed we would have one more run through the pack between the two of us. It was a gallant gesture. Typical of an English gentleman. 'Unfortunately you lost, and this upset you so much that you decided to leave Royale immediately for an unknown destination. Like the gentleman you are, you very kindly gave me a note explaining the circumstances so that I would have no difficulty in cashing your cheque. You see, dear boy, everything has been thought of, and you need have no fears on my account.' He chuckled fatly. 'Now shall we continue? I have all the time in the world, and truth to tell I am rather interested to see how long a man can stand this particular form of — er — encouragement.' He rattled the harsh cane on the floor. So that was the score, thought Bond, with a final sinking of the heart. The 'unknown destination' would be under the ground or under the sea, or perhaps, more simple, under the crashed Bentley. Well, if he had to die anyway, he might as well try it the hard way. He had no hope that Mathis or Leiter would get to him in time, but at least there was a chance that they would catch up with Le Chiffre before he could get away. It must be getting on for seven. The car might have been found by now. It was a choice of evils; but the longer Le Chiffre continued the torture the more likely he would be revenged. Bond lifted his head and looked Le Chiffre in the eyes. The china of the whites was now veined with red. It was like looking at two black currants poached in blood. The rest of the wide face was yellowish except where a thick black stubble covered the moist skin. The upward edges of black coffee at the corners of the mouth gave his expression a false smile and the whole face was faintly striped by the light through the Venetian blinds. ', 'No,' he said flatly, '. . . you.' Le Chiffre grunted and set to work again with savage fury. Occasionally he snarled like a wild beast. After ten minutes Bond had fainted, blessedly, Le Chiffre at once stopped. He wiped some sweat from his face with a circular motion of his disengaged hand. Then he looked at his watch and seemed to make up his mind. • He got up and stood behind the inert, dripping body. There was no colour in Bond's face or anywhere on his body above the waist. There was a faint flutter of his skin above the heart. Otherwise he might have been dead. Le Chiffre seized Bond's ears and harshly twisted them. Then he leant forward and slapped his cheeks hard several times. Bond's head rolled from side to side with each blow. Slowly his breathing became deeper. An animal groan came from his lolling mouth. , Le Chiffre took a glass of coffee and poured some into Bond's mouth and threw the rest in his face. Bond's eyes slowly opened. Le Chiffre returned to his chair and waited. He lit a cigarette and contemplated the spattered pool of blood on the floor beneath the inert body opposite. Bond groaned again pitifully. It was an inhuman sound. His eyes opened wide, and he gazed dully at his torturer. . .„ Le Chiffre spoke. 'That is all, Bond. We will now finish with you. You understand? Not kill you, but finish with you. And then we will have in the girl and see if something can be got out of the remains of the two of you.' . He reached towards the table. 'Say goodbye to it, Bond.'   It was extraordinary to hear the third voice. The hour's ritual had only demanded a duologue against the horrible noise of the torture. Bond's dimmed senses hardly took it in. Then suddenly he was halfway back to consciousness. He found he could see and hear again. He could hear the dead silence after the one quiet word from the doorway. He could see Le Chiffre's head slowly come up and the expression of blank astonishment, of innocent amazement, slowly give way to fear. 'Shtop,' had said the voice, quietly. Bond heard slow steps approaching behind his chair. 'Dhrop it,' said the voice. Bond saw Le Chiffre's hand open obediently and the knife fall with a clatter to the floor. He tried desperately to read into Le Chiffre's face what was happening behind him, but all he saw was blind incomprehension and terror. Le Chiffre's mouth worked, but only a high-pitched 'eek' came from it. His heavy cheeks trembled as he tried to collect enough saliva in his mouth to say something, ask something. His hands fluttered vaguely in his lap. One of them made a slight movement towards his pocket, but instantly fell back. His round staring eyes had lowered for a split second, and Bond guessed there was a gun trained on him. There was a moment's silence. 'Smersh.' The word came almost with a sigh. It came with a downward cadence as if nothing else had to be said. It was the final explanation. The last word of all. 'No,' said Le Chiffre. 'No. I . . .' His voice trailed off. Perhaps he was going to explain, to apologize, but what he must have seen in the other's face made it all useless. 'Your two men. Both dead. You are a fool and a thief and a traitor. I have been sent from the Soviet Union to eliminate you. You are fortunate that I have only time to shoot you. If it was possible, I was instructed that you should die most painfully. We cannot see the end of the trouble you have caused.' The thick voice stopped. There was silence in the room save for the rasping breath of Le Chiffre. Somewhere outside, a bird began to sing and there were other small noises from the awakening countryside. The sweat on Le Chiffre's face glistened brightly. 'Do you plead guilty? ' Bond wrestled with his consciousness. He screwed up his eyes and tried to shake his head to clear it; but his whole nervous system was numbed, and no message was transmitted to his muscles. He could just keep his focus on the great pale face in front of him and on its bulging eyes. A thin string of saliva crept from the open mouth and hung down from the chin. 'Yes,' said the mouth. . . . There was a sharp phut, no louder than a bubble of air escaping from a tube of toothpaste. No other noise at all, and suddenly Le Chiffre had grown another eye, a third eye on a level with the other two, right where the thick nose started to jut out below the forehead. It was a small black eye, without eyelashes or eyebrows. For a second the three eyes looked out across the room, and then the whole face seemed to slip and go down on one knee. The two outer eyes turned trembling up towards the ceiling. Then the heavy head fell sideways and the right shoulder and finally the whole upper part of the body lurched over the arm of the chair as if Le Chiffre were going to be sick. But there was only a short rattle of his heels on the ground, and then no other movement. The tall back of the chair looked impassively out across the dead body in its arms. There was a faint movement behind Bond. A hand came from behind and grasped his chin and pulled it back. For a moment Bond looked up into two glittering eyes behind a narrow black mask. There was the impression of under a hatbrim, the collar of a fawn mackintosh. He could take in nothing more before his head was pushed down again. 'You are fortunate,' said the voice. 'I have no orders to kill you. Your life has been saved twice in one day. But you can tell your organization that SMERSH is only merciful by chance or by mistake. In your case you were saved first by chance and now by mistake, for I should have had orders to kill any foreign spies who were hanging around this traitor like flies round a dog'smess. 'But I shall leave you my visiting card. You are a gambler. You play at cards. One day perhaps you will play against one of us. It would be well that you should be known as a spy.' Steps moved round to behind Bond's right shoulder.  A CRAG LIKE FACE There was the click of a knife opening. An arm in some grey material came into Bond's line of vision. A broad hairy hand emerging from a dirty white shirt-cuff was holding a thin stiletto like a fountain-pen. It poised for a moment above the back of Bond's right hand, immovably bound with flex to the arm of the chair. The point of the stiletto executed three quick straight slashes. A fourth slash crossed them where they ended, just short of the knuckles. Blood in the shape of an inverted 'M' welled out and slowly started to drip on to the floor. The pain was nothing to what Bond was already suffering, but it was enough to plunge him again into unconsciousness. The steps moved quietly away across the room. The door was softly closed. In the silence, the cheerful small sounds of the summer's day crept through the closed window. High on the left-hand wall hung two small patches of pink light. They were reflections cast upwards from the floor by the zebra stripes of June sunshine, cast upwards from two separate pools of blood a few feet apart. As the day progressed the pink patches marched slowly along the wall. And slowly they grew larger.  The White Tent  You are about to awaken when you dream that you are dreaming. During the next two days James Bond was permanently in this state without regaining consciousness. He watched the procession of his dreams go by without making any effort to disturb their sequence, although many of them were terrifying and all were painful. He knew that he was in a bed and that he was lying on his back and could not move and in one of his twilight moments he thought there were people round him; but he made no effort to open his eyes and reenter the world. He felt safe in the darkness, and he hugged it to him. On the morning of the third day a bloody nightmare shook him awake, trembling and sweating. There was a hand on his forehead which he associated with his dream. He tried to lift an arm and smash it sideways into the owner of the hand, but his arms were immovable, secured to the sides of his bed. His whole body THEWHITETENT was strapped down and something like a large white coffin covered him from chest to feet and obscured his view of the end of the bed. He shouted a string of obscenities; but the effort took all his strength, and the words tailed off into a sob. Tears of forlornness and self-pity welled out of his eyes. A woman's voice was speaking, and the words gradually penetrated to him. It seemed to be a kind voice, and it slowly came to him that he was being comforted, and that this was a friend and not an enemy. He could hardly believe it. He had been so certain that he was still a captive, and that the torture was about to begin again. He felt his face being softly wiped with a cool cloth which smelt of lavender, and then he sank back into his dreams. When he awoke again some hours later all his terrors had gone, and he felt warm and languorous. Sun was streaming into the bright room, and garden sounds came through the window. In the background there was the noise of small waves on a beach. As he moved his head he heard a rustle, and a nurse who had been sitting beside his pillow rose and came into his line of vision. She was pretty, and she smiled as she put her hand on his pulse. 'Well, I'm certainly glad you've woken up at last. I've never heard such dreadful language in my life. ' Bond smiled back at her. 'Where am I?' he asked, and was surprised that his Voice sounded firm and clear. 'You're in a nursing home at Royale and I've been sent over from England to look after you. There are two of us, and I'm Nurse Gibson. Now just lie quiet, and I'll go and tell doctor you're awake. You've been unconscious since they brought you in, and we've been quite worried.' Bond closed his eyes and mentally explored his body. The worst pain was in his wrists and ankles and in his right hand where the Russian had cut him. In the centre of the body there was no feeling. He assumed that he had been given a local anaesthetic. The rest of his body ached dully as if he had been beaten all over. He could feel the pressure of bandages everywhere, and his unshaven neck and chin prickled against the sheets. From the feel of the bristles he knew that he must have been at least three days without shaving. That meant two days since the morning of the torture. He was preparing a short list of questions in his mind when the door opened and the doctor came in followed by the nurse and, in the background, the dear figure of Mathis, a Mathis looking anxious behind his broad smile, who put a finger to his lips and walked on, tiptoe to the window and sat down. The doctor, a Frenchman with a young and intelligent face, had been detached from his duties with the DeuxiSme Bureau to look after Bond's case. He came and stood beside Bond and put his hand on Bond's forehead while he looked at the temperature chart behind the bed. When he spoke he was forthright. 'You have a lot of questions to ask, my dear Mr. Bond,' he said in excellent English, 'and I can tell you most of the answers. I do not want you to waste your strength, so I will give you the salient facts and then you may have a few minutes with Monsieur Mathis who wishes to obtain one or two details from you. It is really too early for this talk, but I wish to set your mind at rest so that we can proceed with the task of repairing your body without bothering too much about your mind.' Nurse Gibson pulled up a chair for the doctor and left the room. 'You have been here about two days,' continued the doctor. 'Your car was found by a farmer on the way to market in Royale, and he informed the police. After some delay Monsieur Mathis heard that it was your car, and he immediately went to Les Noctambules with his men. You and Le Chiffre were found and also your  THE WHITE TENT friend, Miss Lynd, who was unharmed and according to her account suffered no molestation. She was prostrated with shock, but is now fully recovered and is at her hotel. She has been instructed by her superior in London to stay at Royale under your orders until you are sufficiently recovered to go back to England. 'Le Chiffre's two gunmen are dead, each killed by a single .35 bullet in the back of the skull. From the lack of expression on their faces, they evidently never saw or heard their assailant. They were found in the same room as Miss Lynd. Le Chiffre is dead, shot with a similar weapon between the eyes. Did you witness his death? ' 'Yes,' said Bond. 'Your own injuries are serious, but your life is not in danger though you have lost a lot of blood. If all goes well, you will recover completely and none of the functions of your body will be impaired.' The doctor smiled grimly. 'But I fear that you will continue to be in pain for several days, and it will be my endeavour to give you as much comfort as possible. Now that you have regained consciousness your arms will be freed, but you must not move your body; and when you sleep the nurse has orders to secure your arms again. Above all, it is important that you rest and regain your strength. At the moment you are suffering from a grave condition of mental and physical, shock.' The doctor paused. 'For how long Were you maltreated? ' 'About an hour, ' said Bond. 'Then it is remarkable that you are alive, and I congratulate you. Few men could have supported what you have been through. Perhaps that is some consolation. As Monsieur Mathis can tell you, I have had in my time to treat a number of patients who have suffered similar handling, and not one has come through it as you have done.' The doctor looked at Bond for a moment and turned brusquely to Mathis. 'You may have ten minutes, and then you will be forcibly ejected. If you put the patient's temperature up, you will answer for it.' He gave them both a broad smile and left the room. Mathis came over and took the doctor's chair. 'That's agoodman,' said Bond. 'I like him.' 'He's attached to the Bureau,' said Mathis. 'He is a very good man, and I will tell you about him one of these days. He thinks you are a prodigy — and so do I, 'However, that can wait. As you can imagine, there is much to clear up, and I am being pestered by Paris and, of course, London, and even by Washington via our good friend Leiter. Incidentally,' he broke off, 'I have a personal message from M. He spoke to me himself on the telephone. He simply said to tell you that he is much impressed. I asked if that was all, and he said: "Well, tell him that the Treasury is. greatly relieved." Then he rang off.' Bond grinned with pleasure. What most warmed him was that M. himself should have rung up Mathis.. This was quite unheard of. The very existence of M., let alone his identity, was never admitted. He could imagine the flutter this must have caused in the ultrasecurity-minded organization in London. 'A tall thin man with one arm came over from London the same day we found you,' continued Mathis, knowing from his own experience that these shop details would interest Bond more than anything else and give him most pleasure, 'and he fixed up the nurses and looked after everything. Even your car's being repaired for you. He seemed to be Vesper's boss. He spent a lot of time with her and gave her strict instructions to look after you.' Head of S., thought Bond. They're certainly giving me the red-carpet treatment. 'Now,' said Mathis, 'to business. Who killed Le Chiffre?' 'SMERSH,' said Bond. Mathis gave a low whistle.  THE WHITE TENT 'My God,' he said respectfully. 'So they were on to him. What did he look like?' ,: Bond explained briefly what had happened up to the moment of Le Chiffre's death, omitting all but the most essential details. It cost him an effort, and he was glad when it was done. Casting his mind back to the scene awoke the whole nightmare, and the sweat began to pour off his forehead and a deep throb of pain started up in his body. Mathis realized that he was going too far. Bond's voice was getting feebler, and his eyes were clouding. Mathis snapped shut his shorthand book and laid a hand on Bond's shoulder. 'Forgive me, my friend,' he said. 'It is all over now, and you are in safe hands. All is well, and the whole plan has gone splendidly. We have announced that Le Chiffre shot his two accomplices and then committed suicide because he could, not face an inquiry into the union funds. Strasbourg and the north are in an uproar. He was considered a great hero there and a pillar of the Communist Party in France. This story of brothels and casinos has absolutely knocked the bottom out of his organization, and they're all running around like scalded cats. At the moment the Communist Party is giving out that he was off his head. But that hasn't helped much after Thorez's breakdown not long ago. They're just making it look as if all their big-shots were gaga. God knows how they're going to unscramble the whole business.' Mathis saw that his enthusiasm had had the desired effect. Bond's eyes were brighter. 'One last mystery,' Mathis said, 'and then I promise I will go.' He looked at his watch. 'The doctor will be after my skin in a moment. Now, what about the money? Where is it? Where did you hide it? We too have been over your room with a toothcomb. It isn't there.' Bond grinned. 'It is,' he said, 'more or less. On the door of each room, there is a small square of black plastic with the number of the room on it. On the corridor side, of course. When Leiter left me that night, I simply opened the door and unscrewed my number plate and put the folded cheque underneath it and screwed the plate back. It'll still be there.' He smiled. 'I'm glad there's something the stupid English can teach the clever French.' Mathis laughed delightedly. 'I suppose you think that's paid me back for knowing what the Muntzes were up to. Well, I'll call it quits. Incidentally, we've got them in the bag. They were just some minor fry hired for the occasion. We'll see that they get a few years. ' He rose hastily as the doctor stormed into the room and took one look at Bond. 'Out,' he said to Mathis! 'Out, and don't come back.' Mathis just had time to wave cheerfully to Bond and call some hasty words of farewell before he was hustled through the door. Bond heard a torrent of heated French diminishing down the corridor. He lay back exhausted, but heartened by all he had heard. He found himself thinking of Vesper as he quickly drifted off into a troubled sleep. There were still questions to be answered, but they could wait. ' The Nature of Evil  Bond made good progress. When Mathis came to see him three days later he was propped up in bed, and his arms were free. The lower half of his body was still shrouded in the oblong tent, but he looked cheerful and it was only occasionally that a twinge of pain narrowed his eyes. Mathis looked crestfallen. 'Here's your cheque,' he said to Bond. 'I've rather enjoyed walking around with forty million francs in my pocket, but I suppose you'd better sign it and I'll put it to your account with the Credit Lyonnais. There's no sign of our friend from SMERSH. Not a damn trace. He must have got to the villa on foot or on a bicycle because you heard nothing of his arrival and the two gunmen obviously didn't. It's pretty exasperating. We've got precious little on this SMERSH organization, and neither has London. Washington said they had; but it turned out to be the usual waffle from refugee interrogation, and you know that's about as much good as in  terrogating an English man-in-the-street about his own Secret Service, or a Frenchman about the Deuxieme.' 'He probably came from Leningrad to Berlin via j "Warsaw, ' said Bond. 'From Berlin. they've got plenty of j routes open to the rest of Europe. He's back home by now being told off for not shooting me too. I fancy they've got quite a file on me in view of one or two of i the jobs M.'s given me since the war. He obviously I thought he was being smart enough cutting his initial in my hand.' 'What's that?' asked Mathis. 'The doctor said the cuts looked like a square M with a tail to the top. He said they didn't mean anything.' •'Well, I Only got a glimpse before I passed out, but I've seen the cuts several times while they were being dressed and I'm pretty certain they are the Russian letter for SH. It's rather like an inverted M with a tail. That would make sense. SMERSH is short for smyert SHPIONAM— Death to Spies— and he thinks he's labelled me as a SHPION. It's a nuisance because M. will probably say I've got to go to hospital again when I get back to London and have new skin grafted over the whole of the back of my hand. It doesn't matter much. I've decided to resign.' Mathis looked at him with his mouth open. 'Resign? ' he asked incredulously. 'What the hell for? ' Bond looked away from Mathis. He studied his bandaged hands. 'When I was being beaten up,' he said, 'I suddenly liked the idea of being alive. Before Le Chiffre began, he used a phrase which stuck in my mind: "playing Red Indians." He said that's what I had been doing. Well, I suddenly thought he might be right. 'You see,' he said, still looking down at his bandages, 'when one's young, it seems very easy to distinguish between right and wrong; but as one gets older it becomes more difficult. At school it's easy to pick out one's own  THE NATURE OF EVIL villains and heroes, and one grows up wanting to be a hero and kill the villains . ' He looked obstinately at Mathis. 'Well, in the last few years I've killed two villains. The first was in New York — a Japanese cipher expert cracking our codes on the thirty-sixth floor of the R.C.A. Building in Rockefeller Center, where the Japs had their consulate. I took a room on the fortieth floor of the next-door skyscraper, and I could look across the street into his room and see him working.. Then I got a colleague from our organization in New York and a couple of Remington thirty-thirty's with telescopic sights and silencers. We smuggled them up to my room and sat for days waiting for our chance. He shot at the man a second before me. His job was only to blast a hole through the window so that I could shoot the Jap through it. They have tough windows at Rockefeller Center to keep the noise out. It worked very well. As I expected, his bullet got deflected by the glass and went God knows where. But I shot immediately after him, through the hole he had made. I got the Jap in the mouth as he turned to gape at the broken window.' Bond smoked for a minute. 'It was a pretty sound job. Nice and clean too. Three hundred yards away. No personal contact. The next time in Stockholm wasn't so pretty. I had to kill a Norwegian who was doubling against us for the Germans. He'd managed to get two of our men captured — probably bumped off for all I know. For various reasons it had to be an absolutely silent job. I chose the bedroom of his flat and a knife. And, well, he just didn' t die very quickly. 'For those two jobs I was awarded a Double O number in the Service. Felt pretty clever and got a reputation for being good and tough. A Double O number in our Service means you've had to kill a chap in cold blood in the course of some job. 'Now,' he looked up again at Mathis, 'that's all very fine — the hero kills two villains; but when the hero Le Chiffre starts to kill the villain Bond and the villain Bond knows he isn't a villain at all, you see the other side of the medal. The villains and heroes get all mixed up. 'Of course,' he added, as Mathis started to expostulate, 'patriotism comes along and makes it seem fairly all right, but this country-right-or-wrong business is getting a little out of date. Today we are fighting communism. Okay. If I'd been alive fifty years ago, the brand of conservatism we have today would have been damn near called communism, and we should have been told to go and fight that. History is moving pretty quickly these days, and the heroes and villains keep on changing parts.' Mathis stared at him aghast. Then he tapped his head and put a calming hand on Bond's arm. 'You mean to say that this precious Le Chiffre who did his best to turn you into a eunuch doesn't qualify as a villain?' he asked. 'Anyone would think from the rot you talk that he had been battering your head instead of your . . .' he gestured down the bed. 'You wait till M. tells you to get after another Le Chiffre. I bet you'll go after him all right. And what about SMERSH? I can tell you I don't like the idea of these chaps running around France killing anyone they feel has been a traitor to their precious political system. You're a bloody anarchist.' He threw his arms in the air and let them fall helplessly to his sides. Bond laughed. 'All right,' he said. 'Take our friend Le Chiffre. It's simple enough to say he was an evil man; at least it's simple enough for me, because he did evil things to me. If he was here now, I wouldn't hesitate to kill him^but out of personal revenge and not, I'm afraid, for some high moral reason or for the sake of my country.' He looked up at Mathis to see how bored he was  THE NATURE OF EVIL getting with these introspective refinements of what, to Mathis, was a simple question of his duty. Mathis smiled back at him. 'Continue, my dear friend. It is interesting for me to see this new Bond. Englishmen are so odd. They are like a nest of Chinese boxes. It takes a very long time to get to the centre of them. When one gets there the result is unrewarding, but the process is instructive and entertaining. Continue. Develop your arguments. There may be something I can use to my own chief the next time I want to get out of an unpleasant job.' He grinned maliciously. Bond ignored him. 'Now in order to tell the difference between good and evil, we have manufactured two images representing the extremes — representing the deepest black and the purest white— and we call them God and the Devil. But in doing so we have cheated a bit. God is a clear image, you can see every hair on His beard. But the Devil. What does he look like?' Bond looked triumphantly at Mathis. Mathis laughed ironically. 'A woman.' 'It's all very fine,' said Bond; 'but I've been thinking about these things, and I'm wondering whose side I ought to be on. I'm getting very sorry for the Devil and Ms disciples, such as the good Le Chiffre. The Devil has a rotten time, and I always like to be on the side of the underdog. We don't give the poor chap a chance. There's a Good Book about goodness and how to be good and so forth, but there's no Evil Book about evil and how to be bad. The Devil had no prophets to write his Ten Commandments, and no team of authors to write his biography. His case has gone completely by default. We know nothing about him but a lot of fairy .. stories from our parents and schoolmasters. He has no book from which we can learn the nature of evil in all its forms, with parables about evil people, proverbs about evil people, folklore about evil people. All we have is the living example of the people who are least good, or our own intuition. 'So,' continued Bond, warming to his argument, 'Le Chiffre was serving a wonderful purpose, a really vital purpose, perhaps the best and highest purpose of all. By his evil existence, which foolishly I have helped to destroy, he was creating a norm of badness by which, and by which alone, an opposite norm of goodness could exist. We were privileged, in our short knowledge of him, to see and estimate his wickedness, and we emerge from the acquaintanceship better and more virtuous men.' 'Bravo,' said Mathis. 'I'm proud of you. You ought to be tortured every day. I really must remember to do something evil this evening. I must start at once. I have a few marks in my favour — only small ones, alas,' he added ruefully; 'but I shall work fast now that I have seen the light. What a splendid time I'm going to have! Now, let's see, where shall I start — murder, arson, rape? But no, these are peccadilloes. I must really consult the good Marquis de Sade. I am a child, an absolute child in these matters.' His face fell. 'Ah, but our conscience, my dear Bond. What shall we do with him while we are committing some juicy sin? That is a problem. He is a crafty person this conscience and very old, as old as the first family of apes which gave birth to him. We must give that problem really careful thought, or we shall spoil our enjoyment. Of course, we should murder him first, but he is a tough bird. It will be difficult, but if we succeed we could be worse even than Le Chiffre. 'For you, dear James, it is easy. You can start off by resigning. That was a brilliant thought of yours, a splendid start to your new career. And so simple. Everyone has the revolver of resignation in his pocket. All you've got to do is pull the trigger, and you will have made a  THE NATURE OF EVIL big hole in your country and your conscience at the same time. A murder and a suicide with one bullet! Splendid. What a difficult and glorious profession! As for me, I must start embracing the new cause at once.' He looked at his watch. 'Good. I've started already. I'm half an hour late for a meeting with the chief of police. ' He rose to his feet, laughing. 'That was most enjoyable, my dear James. You really ought to go on the halls. Now about that little problem of yours, this business of not knowing good men from bad men and villains from heroes, and so forth. It is, of course, a difficult problem in the abstract. The secret lies in personal experience, whether you're a Chinaman or an Englishman.' He paused at the door. 'You admit that Le Chiffre did you personal evil, and that you would kill him if he appeared in front of you now? 'Well, when you get back to London you will find there are other Le Chiffres seeking to destroy you and your friends and your country. M. will tell you about them. And now that you have seen a really evil man you will know how evil they can be, and you will go after them to destroy them in order to protect yourself and the people you love. You won't wait or argue about it. You know what they look like now and what they can do to people. You may be a bit more choosy about the jobs you fake on. You may want to be certain that the target really is black; but there are plenty of really black targets around. There's still plenty for you to do. And you'll do it. And when you fall in love and have a mistress or a wife and children to look after, it will seem all the easier.' Mathis opened the door and stopped on the threshold. 'Surround yourself with human beings, my dear James. They are easier to fight for than principles. ' He laughed. 'But don't let me down and become human yourself. We would lose such a wonderful machine.' With a wave of the hand he shut the door. 'Hey, ' shouted Bond. But the footsteps went quickly off down the passage. Vesper  It was on the next day that Bond asked to see Vesper. He had not wanted to see her before. He was told that every day she came to the nursing home and asked after him. Flowers had arrived from her. Bond didn't like flowers, and he told the nurse to give them to another patient. After this had happened twice, no more flowers came. Bond had not meant to offend her. He disliked having feminine things around him. Flowers seemed to ask for recognition of the person who had sent them, to be constantly transmitting a message of sympathy and affection. Bond found this irksome. He disliked being cosseted. It gave him claustrophobia. Bond was bored at the idea of having to explain some of this to Vesper. And he was embarrassed at having to ask one or two questions which mystified him, questions about Vesper's behaviour. The answers would almost certainly make her out to be a fool. Then he had his full report to M. to think about. In this he didn't want to  have to criticize Vesper. It might easily cost her her job. But above all, he admitted to himself, he shirked the answer to a more painful question. The doctor had talked often to Bond about his injuries. He had always told him that there would be no evil effects from the terrible battering his body had received. He had said that Bond's full health would return, and that none of his powers had been taken from him. But the evidence of Bond's eyes and his nerves refused these comforting assurances. He was still painfully swollen and bruised, and whenever the injections wore off he was in agony. Above all, his imagination had suffered. For an hour in that room with Le Chiffre the certainty of impotence had been beaten into him; and a scar had been left on his mind that could only be healed by experience. From the day when Bond first met Vesper in the Hermitage bar, he had found her desirable; and he knew that if things had been different in the night club, if Vesper had responded in any way and if there had been no kidnapping, he would have tried to sleep with her that night. Even later, in the car and outside the villa when he had had other things to think about, his eroticism had been hotly aroused by the sight of her indecent nakedness. And now, when he could see her again, he was afraid. Afraid that his senses and his body would not respond to her sensual beauty. Afraid that he would feel no stir of desire, and that his blood would stay cool. In his mind he had made this first meeting into a test, and he was shirking the answer. That was the real reason, he admitted, why he had waited to give his body a chance to respond, why he had put off . their first meeting for over a week. He would have liked to put off the meeting still further, but he explained to himself that his report must be written, that any day an emissary from London would come over and want to hear the full story, that  VESPER today was as good as tomorrow, that anyway he might as well know the worst. So on the eighth day he asked for her, for the early morning when he was feeling refreshed and strong after the night's rest. For no reason at all, he had expected that she would show some sign of her experiences, that she would look pale and even ill. He was not prepared for the tall bronzed girl in a cream tussore frock with a black belt who came happily through the door and stood smiling at him. -Good heavens, Vesper/ he said with a wry gesture of welcome, 'you look absolutely splendid. You must thrive on disaster. How have you managed to get such a wonderful sunburn? ' 'I feel very guilty,' she said sitting down beside him. 'But I've been bathing every day while you've been lying here. The doctor said I was to and Head of S. said I was to; so— well, I just thought it wouldn't help you for me to be moping away all day long in my room. I've found a wonderful stretch of sand down the coast, and I take my lunch and go there every day with a book, and I don't come back till the evening. There's a bus that takes me there and back with only a short walk over the dunes, and I've managed to get over the fact that it's on the way down that road to the villa. ' Her voice faltered. The mention of the villa had made Bond's eyes flicker. She continued bravely, refusing to be defeated by Bond's lack of response. 'The doctor says it won't be long before you're allowed up. I thought perhaps ... I thought perhaps I could take you down to this beach later on. The doctor says that bathing would be very good for you. ' Bond grunted. 'God knows when I'll be able to bathe,' he said. 'The  doctor's talking through his hat. And when I can bathe it would probably be better for me to bathe alone for a bit. I don't want to frighten anybody. Apart from anything else/ he glanced pointedly down the bed, 'my body's a mass of scars and bruises. But you enjoy yourself. There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy yourself.' Vesper was stung by the bitterness and injustice in his voice. 'I'm sorry,' she said. 'I just thought ... I was just trying . . .' Suddenly her eyes filled with tears. She swallowed. 'I wanted ... I wanted to help you get well.' Her voice strangled. She looked piteously at him, facing the accusation in his eyes and in his manner. Then she broke down and buried her face in her hands and sobbed. 'I'm sorry,' she said in a muffled voice. 'I'm really sorry.' With one hand she searched for a handkerchief, in her bag. 'It's all my fault,' she dabbed at her eyes. 'I know it's all my fault. ' Bond at once relented. He put out a bandaged hand and laid it on her knee. 'It's all right, Vesper. I'm sorry I was so rough. It's just that I was jealous of you in the sunshine while I'm stuck here. Directly I'm well enough I'll come with you, and you must show me your beach. Of course it's just what I want. It'll be wonderful to get out again.' She pressed his hand and stood up and walked over to the window. After a moment she busied herself with her makeup. Then she came back to the bed. Bond looked at her tenderly. Like all harsh, cold men, he was easily tipped over into sentiment. She was very beautiful, and he felt warm towards her. He decided to make his questions as easy as possible. He gave her a cigarette, and for a time they talked of the visit of Head of S. and of the reactions in London to the rout of LeChiffre. ;  VESPER From what she said it was clear that the final object of the plan had been more than fulfilled. The story was still being splashed all over the world, and correspondents of most of the English and American papers had been at Royale trying to trace the Jamaican millionaire who had defeated Le Chiffre at the tables. They had got on to Vesper, but she had covered up well. Her story was that Bond had told her he was going on to Cannes and Monte Carlo to gamble'with his winnings. The hunt had moved down to the South of France. Mathis and the police had obliterated all other traces, and the papers were forced to concentrate on the Strasbourg angles and the chaos in the ranks of the French communists. 'By the way, Vesper,' said Bond after a time, 'what really happened to you after you left me in the night club? All I saw was the actual kidnapping.' He told her briefly of the scene outside the Casino. 'I'm afraid I must have lost my head,' said Vesper, avoiding Bond's eyes. 'When I couldn't see Mathis anywhere in the entrance hall I went outside, and the commissionaire asked me if I was Miss Lynd, and then told me the man who had sent in the note was waiting in a car down on the right of the steps. Somehow I wasn't particularly surprised. I'd only known Mathis for a day or two, and I didn't know how he worked, so I just walked down towards the car. It was away on the right and more or less in the shadows. Just as I was coming up to it, Le Chiffre's two men jumped out from behind one of the other cars in the row and simply scooped my skirt over my head. ' Vesper blushed. 'It sounds a childish trick,'. she looked penitently at Bond, 'but it's really frightfully effective. One's a complete prisoner and although I screamed I don't expect any sound came out from under my skirt. I kicked out as hard as I could; but that was no use, as I couldn't see, and my arms were absolutely helpless. I was just a trussed chicken. They picked me up between them and shoved me into the back of the car. I went on struggling, of course, and when thenar started and while they were trying to tie a rope or something around the top of my skirt over my head, I managed to get an arm free and throw my bag through the window. I hope it was some use.' Bond nodded. 'It was really instinctive. I just thought you'd have no idea what had happened to me, and I was terrified. I did the first thing I could think of.' Bond knew that it was him they had been after and that, if Vesper hadn't thrown her bag out, they would probably have thrown it out themselves directly they saw him appear on the steps. , 'It certainly helped,' said Bond. 'But why didn't you make any sign when they finally got me after, the" car smash, when I spoke to you? I was dreadfully worried. I thought they might have knocked you out or something,' 'I'm afraid I must have been unconscious,' said Vesper. 'I fainted once from lack of air, and when I came to they had cut a hole in front of my face. I must have fainted again. I don't remember much until we got to the villa. I really only gathered you had been captured when I heard you try and come after me in the passage. ' 'And they didn't touch you?' asked. Bond. 'They didn't try and mess about with you while I was being beaten up?' 'No,' said Vesper. 'They just left me in an armchair. They drank and played cards— belotte, I think it was from what I heard — and then they went to sleep. I suppose that was how SMERSH got them. They bound my legs and put me on a chair in a corner facing the wall, and I saw nothing of SMERSH. I heard some odd noises. I expect they woke me up. And then what sounded like one of them falling off his chair. Then there were some soft footsteps, and a door closed; and then nothing hap VESPER pened until Mathis and the police burst in hours later. I slept most of the time. I had no idea what had happened to you, but'— she faltered— 'I did once hear a terrible scream. It sounded very far away. At least, I think it must have been a scream. At the time I thought it might have been a nightmare.' 'I'm afraid that must have been me,' said Bond. Vesper, put out a hand and touched one of his. Her eyes filled with tears. 'It's horrible,' she said. 'The things they did to you. And it was all my fault. If only . . . ' She buried her face in her hands. 'That's all right,' said Bond comfortingly. 'It's no good crying over spilt milk. It's all over now, and thank heavens they let you alone:' He patted her knee. 'They were going to start on you when they'd got me really softened up. We've got a lot to thank SMERSH for. Now, come on, let's forget about it. It certainly wasn't anything to do with you. Anybody could have fallen for that note. Anyway, it*s all water over the dam,' he added cheerfully. Vesper looked at him gratefully through her tears. 'You really promise?' she asked. 'I thought you would never forgive me. I . . . I'll try and make it up to you. Somehow.' She looked at him. Somehow? thought Bond to himself. He looked at her. She was smiling at him. He smiled back, 'You'd better look out,' he said. 'I may hold you to that.'' She looked into his eyes and said nothing, but the enigmatic challenge was back. She pressed his hand and rose. 'A promise is a promise,' she said. This time they both knew what the promise was. She picked up her bag from the bed and walked to the door. • 'Shall I come tomorrow?? She looked at Bond gravely. 'Yes, please, Vesper,' said Bond. 'I'd like that. Please do some more exploring. It will be fun to think of what we can do when I get up. Will you think of some things?' 'Yes,' said Vesper. 'Please get well quickly.' They gazed at each other for a second. Then she went out and closed the door, and Bond listened until the sound of her footsteps had died away.   From that day Bond' s recovery was rapid . He sat up in bed and wrote his report to M. He made light of what he still considered amateurish behaviour on the part of Vesper. By juggling with the emphasis, he made the kidnapping sound much more Machiavellian than it had been. He praised Vesper's coolness and composure throughout the whole episode without saying „ that he had found some of her actions unaccountable. Every day Vesper came to see him, and he looked forward to these visits with excitement. She talked happily of her adventures of the day before, her explorations down the coast, and the restaurants where she had eaten. She had made friends with the chief of police and with one of the directors of the Casino, and it was they who took her out in the evening and occasionally lent her a car during the day. She kept an eye on the repairs to the Bentley which had been towed down to coachbuilders at Rouen, and she even arranged for some new clothes to be sent out from Bond's London flat. Nothing survived from his original wardrobe. Every stitch had been cut to ribbons in the search for the forty million francs. The Le Chiffre affair was never mentioned between them. She occasionally told Bond amusing stories of Head of S.'s office. She had apparently transferred there from the W.R.N. S. And he told her of some of his adventures in the Service. He found he could speak to her easily, and he was surprised. With most women his manner was a mixture of taciturnity and passion. The lengthy approaches to a seduction bored him almost as much as the subsequent mess of disentanglement. He found something grisly in the inevitability of the pattern of each affair. The conventional parabola — sentiment, the touch of the hand, the kiss, the passionate kiss, the feel of the body, the climax in the bed, then more bed, then less bed, then the boredom, the tears, and the final bitterness— was to him shameful and hypocritical. Even more he shunned the mise-en-scene for each of these acts in the play — the meeting at a party, the restaurant, the taxi, his flat, her flat, then the week-end by the sea, then the flats again, then the furtive alibis and the final angry farewell on some doorstep in the rain. But with Vesper there could be none of this. In the dull room and the boredom of his treatment her presence was each day an oasis of pleasure, something to look forward to. In their talk there was nothing but companionship with a distant undertone of passion. In the background there was the unspoken zest of the promise which, in due course and in their own time, would be met. Over all there brooded the shadow of his injuries and the tantalus of their slow healing. Whether Bond liked it or not, the branch had already escaped his knife and was ready to burst into flower. With enjoyable steps Bond recovered. He was allowed up. Then he was allowed to sit in the garden.  Then he could go for a short walk, then for a long drive. And then the afternoon came when the doctor appeared on a flying visit from Paris and pronounced him well again. His clothes were brought round by Vesper, farewells were exchanged with the nurses, and a hired car drove them away. It was three weeks from the day when he had been on the edge of death, and how it was July and the hot summer shimmered down the coast and out at sea. Bond clasped the moment to him. Their destination was to be a surprise for him. He had not wanted to go back to one of the big hotels in Royale, and Vesper said she would find somewhere away from the town. But she insisted on being mysterious about it and only said that she had found a place he would like. He was happy to be in her hands, but he covered up his surrender by referring to their destination as 'Trou sur Mer' (she admitted it was by the sea), and lauding the rustic delights of outside lavatories, bedbugs, and cockroaches. Their drive was spoiled by a curious incident. While they followed the coast-road in the direction of Les Noctambules, Bond described to her his wild chase in the Bentley, finally pointing out the curve he had taken before the crash and the exact place where the vicious carpet of spikes had been laid. He slowed the car down and leant out to show her the deep cuts in, the tarmac made by the rims of the wheels and the broken branches in the hedge and the patch of oil where the car had come to rest. But all the time she was distrait and fidgety and commented only in monosyllables. Once or twice he caught her glancing in the driving-mirror; but when he had a chartce to look back through the rear window they had just rounded a bend, and he could see nothing. Finally he took her hand. 'Something's on your mind, Vesper,' he said. ' She gave him a taut, bright smile. 'It's nothing. Ab  solutely nothing. I had a silly idea We were being' followed. It's just nerves, I suppose. This road is full of ghosts.' Under cover of a short laugh she looked back again. 'Look. ' There was an edge of panic in her voice. Obediently Bond turned his head. Sure enough, a " quarter of a mile away, a black saloon was coming after ' them at a good pace. Bond laughed. 'We can't be the only people using this road,' he said. 'Anyway, who wants to follow us? We've done nothing wrong.' He patted her hand. 'It's a middle-aged commercial traveller in car-polish on his way to Le Havre. He's probably thinking of his lunch and his mistress in Paris. Really, Vesper, you mustn't think evil of the innocent.' 'I expect you're right,' she said nervously. 'Anyway, we're nearly there.' She relapsed into silence and gazed out of the window. Bond could still feel her tenseness. He smiled to himself at what he took to be simply a hangover from their recent adventures. But he decided to humour her, and when they came to a small lane leading towards the sea and slowed to turn down it, he told the driver to stop directly they were off the main road. Hidden by the tall hedge, they watched together through the rear window. Through the quiet hum of summer noises they could hear the car approaching. Vesper dug her fingers into his arm. The pace of the car did not alter as it approached their hiding-place and they had only a brief glimpse of a man's profile as a black saloon tore by. It was true that he seemed to glance quickly towards them, but above them in the hedge there was a gaily painted sign point down the lane announcing 'L'Auberge du  , crustaces, fritures.' It  was obvious to Bond that it was this that had caught the driver's eye. ^ As the rattle of the car's exhaust diminished down the road, Vesper sank back into her corner. Her face was pale. 'He looked at us,' she said. 'I told you so. I knew we were being followed. Now they know where we are.' Bond could not contain his impatience. 'Bunkum, ' he said. 'He was looking at that sign.' He pointed it out to Vesper. She looked slightly relieved. 'Do you really think so?' she asked. 'Yes. I see. Of course, you must be right. Come on. I'm sorry to be so stupid. I don't know what came over me.' She leant forward and talked to the driver through the partition, and the car moved on. She sank back and turned a bright face towards Bond. The colour had almost come back to her cheeks. 'I really am sorry. It's just that — it's that I can't believe everything's over and there's no one to be frightened of any more.' She pressed his hand. 'You must think me very stupid.' 'Of course not,' said Bond. 'But really nobody could be interested in us now. Forget it all. The whole job's finished, wiped up. This is our holiday, and there's not a cloud in the sky. Is there? ' he persisted. 'No, of course not.' She shook herself slightly. 'I'm mad. Now we'll be there in a second. I do hope you're going to like it.' They both leant forward. Animation was back in her face, and the incident left only the smallest question mark hanging in the air. Even that faded as they came through the dunes and saw the sea and the modest little inn amongst the pines. 'It's not very grand, I'm afraid,' said Vesper. ;But it's very clean, and the food's wonderful.' She looked at him anxiously. She need not have worried. Bond loved the place at first sight — the terrace leading almost to the high-tide mark, the low two-storied house With gay brick-red awnings over the windows, and the crescent-shaped bay of blue water and golden sand. How many times in his life would he have given anything to have turned off a main road to find a lost corner like this where he could let the world go by and live in the sea from dawn to dusk! And now he was to have a whole week of this. And of Vesper. In his mind he fingered the necklace of the days to come. They drew up in the courtyard behind the house, and the proprietor and his wife came out to greet them. Monsieur Versoix was a middle-aged man with one arm. The other he had lost fighting with the Free French in Madagascar. He was a friend of the chief of police of Royale, and it was the Commissaire who had suggested the place to Vesper and had spoken to the proprietor on the telephone. As a result, nothing was going to be too good for them. Madame Versoix had been interrupted in the middle of preparing dinner. She wore an apron and held a wooden spoon in one hand. She was younger than her husband, chubby and handsome and warm-eyed. Instinctively Bond guessed that they had no children and that they gave their thwarted affection to their friends and some regular customers, and probably to some pets. He thought that their life was probably something of a struggle, and that the inn must be very lonely in wintertime with the big seas and the noise of the wind in the pines. The proprietor showed them to their rooms. Vesper's was a double room, and Bond was next door, at the corner of the house, with one window looking out to sea and another with a view of the distant arm of the bay. There was a bathroom between them. Everything was spotless, and sparsely comfortable. The proprietor was pleased when they both showed their delight. He said that dinner would be at seven thirty and that Madame la patrOnne was preparing broiled lobsters with melted butter. He was sorry that they were so quiet just then. It was Tuesday. There would be more people at the week-end. The season had not been good. Generally they had plenty of English people staying, but times were difficult over there and the English just came for a week-end at Royale and then went home after losing their money at the Casino. It was not like the old days. He shrugged his shoulders philosophically. But then no day was like the day before, and no century like the previous one, and . . . 'Quite so, ' said Bond.   They were talking on the threshold of Vesper's room. When the proprietor left them, Bond pushed her inside and closed the door. Then he put his hands on her shoulders and kissed her on both cheeks. 'This is heaven, ' he said. Then he saw that her eyes were shining. Her hands came up and rested on his forearms. He stepped right up against her, and his arms dropped round her waist. Her head went back, and her mouth opened beneath his. 'My darling,' he said. He plunged his mouth down onto hers and felt her respond, shyly at first, then more passionately. His hand slipped down her back and pressed her body fiercely to his. Panting, she slipped her mouth away and they clung together; he brushed her ear with his lips and felt the firm warmth of her breasts against him. Then he reached up and seized her hair and bent her head back until he could kiss her again. She pushed him away and sank back exhausted on to the bed. For a moment they looked at each other hungrily. 'I'm sorry, Vesper,' he said. 'I didn't mean to then.' • She shook her head, dumb with the storm which had passed through her. He came and sat beside her, and they looked at each other with lingering tenderness as the ebbed in their veins. She leant over and kissed him on the corner of the mouth, then she brushed the black comma of hair back from his damp forehead. , 'My darling,' she said. 'Give me a cigarette. I don't know where my bag is.' She looked vaguely round the room. ' Bond lit one for her and put it between her lips. She took a deep lungful of smoke and let it pour out through her mouth with a slow sigh. Bond put his arm round her, but she got up and walked over to the window. She stood there with her back to him. Bond looked down at his hands and saw they were still trembling. 'It's going to take some time to get ready for dinner,' said Vesper, still not looking at him. 'Why don't you go and bathe? I'll unpack for you.' Bond left the bed and came and stood close against her. He put his arms round her and put a hand over each breast. They filled his hands and the nipples were hard against his fingers. She put her hands over his and pressed them into her, but she still looked away from him out of the window. 'Not now,' she said in a low voice Bond bent and burrowed his lips into the nape of her neck. For a moment he strained her hard to him, then he let her go. 'All right, Vesper,' he said. He walked over to the door and looked back. She had not moved. For some reason he thought she was crying. He took a step towards her and then realized that there was nothing to say between them then.  'My love,' he said. Then he went out and shut the door. Bond walked along to his room and sat down on the bed. He felt weak from the passion which had swept through his body. He was torn between the desire to fall back full-length on the bed and his longing to be cooled and revived by the sea. He played with the choice for a moment, then he went over to his suitcase and took out white linen bathing-trunks and a dark blue pyjama-suit. Bond had always disliked pyjamas and had slept naked until in Hong Kong at the end of the war he came across the perfect compromise. This was a pyjama-coat which came almost down to the knees. It had no buttons, but there was a loose belt round the waist. The sleeves were wide and short, ending just above the elbow. The result was cool and comfortable, and now when he slipped the coat on over his trunks, all his bruises and scars were hidden except the thin white bracelets on wrists and ankles and the mark of SMERSH on his right hand. i He slipped his feet into a pair of dark-blue leather sandals and went downstairs and out of the house and across the terrace to the beach. As he passed across the front of the house he thought of Vesper; but he refrained from looking up to see if she was still standing at the window. If she saw him, she gave no sign. He walked along the waterline on the hard golden sand until he was out of sight of the inn. Then he threw off his pyjama-coat .and took a short run and a quick flat dive into the small waves. The beach shelved quickly and he kept under water as long as he could, swimming with powerful strokes and feeling the soft coolness all over him. Then he surfaced and brushed the hair out of his eyes. It was nearly seven, and the sun had lost much of its heat. Before long it would sink beneath the further arm of the bay; but now it was straight in his eyes, and he turned on his back and swam away from it so that he could keep it with him as long as possible.  When he came ashore nearly a mile down the bay the shadows had already engulfed his distant pyjamas; but he knew he had time to lie on the hard sand and dry before the tide of dusk reached him. He took off his bathing trunks and looked down at his body. There were only a few traces left of his injuries. He shrugged his shoulders and lay down with his limbs spread out in a star and gazed up at the empty blue sky and thought of Vesper. His feelings for her were confused, and he was impatient with the confusion. They had been so simple. He had intended to sleep with her as soon as he could, because he desired her and also because — he admitted it to himself— he wanted coldly to put the repairs to his body to the final test. He thought they would sleep together for a few days and then he might see something of her in London. Then would come the inevitable disengagement which would be all the easier because of their positions in the Service. If it was not easy, he could go off on an assignment abroad or— which was also in his mind — he could resign and travel to different parts of the world as he had always wanted. But somehow she had crept under his skin, and over the last two weeks his feelings had gradually changed. He found her companionship easy and unexacting. There was something enigmatic about her which was a constant stimulus. She gave little of her real personality away, and he felt that, however long they were together, there would always be a private room inside her which he could never invade. She was thoughtful and full of consideration without being slavish and without compromising her arrogant spirit. And now he knew that she was profoundly, excitingly sensual, but that the conquest of her body, because of the central privacy in her, would each time have the tang of rape. Loving her physically would each time be a thrilling voyage without the anticlimax of arrival. She would surrender herself avidly, he thought, and greedily enjoy all the intimacies of the bed without ever allowing herself to be possessed. Naked, Bond lay and Jxied to push away the conclusions he read in the sky. He turned his head and looked down the beach and saw that the shadows of the headland were almost reaching for him. He stood up and brushed off as much of the sand as he could reach. He reflected that he would have a bath when he got in and he' absent-mindedly picked up his trunks and started walking back along the beach. It was only when he reached his pyjama-coat and bent to pick it up that he realized he was still naked. Without bothering about the trunks, he slipped on the light coat and walked on to the hotel. At that moment his mind was made up.  'Fruit D§fendu'  When he got back to his room he was touched to find all his belongings put away and in the bathroom his toothbrush and shaving things neatly arranged at one end of the glass shelf over the washbasin. At the other end were Vesper's toothbrush and one or two small bottles and a jar of face-cream. He glanced at the bottles and was surprised to see that one contained Nembutal sleeping pills. Perhaps her nerves had been more shaken by the events at the villa than he had imagined. The bath had been filled for him, and there was a new flask of some expensive pine bath-essence on a chair beside it with his towel. 'Vesper,' he called. 'Yes?' 'You really are the limit. You make me feel like an expensive gigolo.' 'I was told to look after you. I'm only doing what I was told.'  'Darling, the bath's absolutely right. Will you marry \ me?' She snorted. 'You need a slave, not a wife. ' 'I want you.' 'Well, I want my lobster and champagne, so hurry up.' 'AH right, all right, ' said Bond. . He dried himself and dressed in a white shirt and dark blue slacks. He hoped that she would be dressed as simply, and he was pleased when, without knocking, she appeared in the doorway wearing a blue linen shirt which had faded to the colour of her eyes and a dark red skirt in pleated cotton. 'I couldn't wait. I was famished. My room's over the kitchen, and I've been tortured by the wonderful smells.' He came over and put his arm round her. She took his hand, and together they went downstairs and out on to the terrace where their table had been laid in the light cast by the empty dining-room. The champagne which Bond had ordered on their arrival stood in a plated wine-cooler beside their table, and Bond poured out two full glasses. Vesper busied herself with a delicious homemade liver pate and helped them both to the crisp French bread and the thick squares of deep yellow butter set in chips of ice. They looked at each other and drank deeply, and Bond filled their glasses again to the rim. While they ate Bond told her of his bathe, and they talked of what they would do in the morning. All through the meal they left unspoken their feelings for each other, but in Vesper's eyes as much as in Bond's there was excited anticipation of the night. They let their hands and feet touch from time to time as if to ease the tension in their bodies. When the lobster had come and gone and the second bottle of champagne was half empty and they had just ladled thick cream over their fraises des bois, Vesper gave a deep sigh of contentment. 'I'm behaving like a pig/ she said happily. 'You always give me all the things I like best. I've never been so spoiled before.' She gazed across the terrace at the moonlit bay. 'I wish I deserved it.' Her voice had a wry undertone. 'What do you mean?' asked Bond surprised. , 'Oh, I don't know. I suppose people get what they deserve, so perhaps I do deserve it.' She looked at him and smiled. Her eyes narrowed quizzically. ' 'You really don't know much about me,' she said suddenly. Bond was surprised by the undertone of seriousness in her voice. 'Quite enough,' he said laughing. 'All I need until tomorrow and the next day and the next. You don't' know much about me for the matter of that.' He poured out more champagne. . Vesper looked at him thoughtfully. 'People are islands,' she said. 'They don't really touch. However close they are, they're really quite separate. Even if they've been married for fifty years. ' Bond thought with dismay that she must be going into a 'vin triste.' Tdo much champagne had made her melancholy. But suddenly she gave a happy laugh. , ' 'Don't look so worried.' She leaned forward and put her hand over his. 'I was only being sentimental. Anyway, my island feels very close to your island tonight.' She took a sip of champagne. ' Bond laughed, relieved. 'Let's join up and make a peninsula,' he said. 'Now, directly we've finished the strawberries.' 'No, ' she said, flirting^ 'I must have coffee. ' 'And brandy,' countered Bond. : ' The small shadow had passed. The second small shadow. This too left a tiny question-mark hanging in the air. It quickly dissolved as warmth and intimacy enclosed them again. When they had had their coffee and Bond was sipping his brandy, Vesper picked up her bag and came and stood behind him. 'I'm tired,' she said, resting a hand on his shoulder. He reached up and held it there, and they stayed motionless for a moment. She bent down and lightly brushed his hair with her lips. Then she was gone, and a few seconds later the light came on in her room. Bond smoked and waited until it had gone out. Then he followed her, pausing only to say good night to the proprietor and his wife and thank them for the dinner. They exchanged compliments, and he went upstairs. It was only half-past nine when he stepped into her room from the bathroom and closed the door behind him. The moonlight shone through the half-closed shutters and lapped at the secret shadows in the snow of her body on the broad bed. Bond awoke in his own room at dawn, and for a time he lay and stroked his memories. Then he got quietly out of bed, and in his pyjamacoat he crept past Vesper's door and out of the house to the beach. The sea was smooth and quiet in the sunrise. The small pink waves idly licked the sand. It was cold, but he took off his jacket and wandered naked along the edge of the sea to the point where he had bathed the evening before, then he walked slowly and deliberately into the water until it was just below his chin. He took his feet off the bottom and sank, holding his nose with one hand and shutting his eyes, feeling the cold water comb his body and his hair. The mirror of the bay was unbroken except where it seemed a fish had jumped. Under the water he imagined  the tranquil scene and wished that Vesper could' just then come through the pines .and be astonished to see him suddenly erupt from the empty seascape. When after a full minute he came to the surface in a froth of spray, he was disappointed. There was no one in sight. For a time he swam and drifted, and then when the sun seemed hot enough, he came in to the beach and lay on his back and revelled in the body which the night had given back to him. As on the evening before, he stared up into the empty sky and saw the same answer there. After a while he rose and walked back slowly along the beach to his pyjama-coat. That day he would ask Vesper to marry him. He was quite certain. It was only a question of choosing the right moment.  'Black-patch'  As he walked quietly from the terrace into the half^-darkness of the still shuttered dining-room, he was surprised to see Vesper emerge from the glass-fronted telephone booth near the front door and softly turn up the stairs towards their rooms. 'Vesper,' he called, thinking she must have had some urgent message which might concern them both. She turned quickly, a hand up to her mouth. For a moment longer than necessary she stared at him, her eyes wide. 'What is it, darling?' he asked, vaguely troubled and fearing some crisis in their lives. 'Oh,' she said breathlessly, 'you made me jump. It was only ... I was just telephoning to Mathis. To Mathis,' she repeated. 'I wondered if he could get me another frock. You know, from that girl-friend I told you about. The vendeuse. You see' — she talked quickly, her words coming out in a persuasive jumble — 'I've really got nothing to wear, I thought I'd catch him at home before he went to the office. I don't know my friend's telephone number, and I thought it would be a surprise for you. I didn't want you to hear me moving and wake you up. Is the water nice? Have you bathed? You ought to have waited for me. ' 'It's wonderful,' said Bond, deciding to relieve her mind, though irritated with her obvious guilt over this childish mystery. 'You must go in, and then we'll have breakfast on the terrace. I'm ravenous. I'm sorry I made you jump. I was just startled to see anyone about at this hour of the morning." He put his arm round her; but she disengaged herself, and moved quickly on up the stairs. : 'It was such a surprise to see you,' she said, trying to cover the incident up with a light touch. 'You looked like, a ghost, a drowned man, with the hair down over your eyes like;: that.' She laughed harshly. Hearing the harshness, she turned the laugh into a cough. ; . 'I hope I haven't caught cold/ she said. She kept on patching up the edifice of her deceit until Bond wanted to spank her and tell her to relax and tell the truth. Instead he just gave her a reassuring pat on the back outside her room and told her to hurry up and have her bathe. Then he went on to his room. * That was the end of the integrity of their love. The succeeding days were a shambles of falseness and hypocrisy, mingled with her tears and moments of animal passion to which she abandoned herself with greed made indecent by the hollowness of their days. Several times Bond tried to break down the dreadful walls of mistrust. Again and again he brought Up the subject of the telephone call; but she obstinately bolstered Up her story with embellishments which Bond knew she had thought out afterwards. She even accused Bond of thinking she had another lover. These scenes always ended in her bitter tears and in moments almost of hysteria. Each day the atmosphere became more hateful . It seemed fantastic to Bond that human relationships could collapse into dust overnight, and he searched his mind again and again for a reason. He felt that Vesper was just as horrified as he was, and, if anything, her misery seemed greater than his. But the mystery of the telephone conversation which Vesper angrily, almost fearfully it seemed to Bond, refused to explain was a shadow which grew darker with other small mysteries and reticences. Already at luncheon on that day things got worse. After a breakfast which was an effort for both of them, Vesper said she had a headache and would stay in her room out of the sun. Bond took a book and walked for miles down the beach. By the time he returned he had argued to himself that they would be able to sort the problem out over lunch. Directly they sat down, he apologized gaily for having startled her at the telephone booth and then he dismissed the subject and went on to describe what he had seen on his walk. But Vesper was distrait and commented only in monosyllables. She toyed With her food, and she avoided Bond's eyes and gazed past him with an air of preoccupation. When she had failed once or twice to respond to some conversational gambit or other, Bond also relapsed into silence and occupied himself with his own gloomy thoughts. All of a sudden she stiffened. Her fork fell with a clatter on to the edge of her plate and then noisily off the table on to the terrace. Bond looked up. She had gone as white as a sheet, and she was looking over his shoulder with terror in her face. Bond turned his head and saw that a man had just taken his place at a table on the opposite side of the terrace, well away from them. He seemed ordinary enough, perhaps rather sombrely dressed; but in his first quick glance Bond put him down as some businessman on his way along the coast who had just happened on the inn or had picked it out of the Michelin. 'What is it, darling? ' he asked anxiously. Vesper's eyes never moved from the distant figure. 'It's the man in the car,' she said in a stifled voice. 'The man who was following us. I know it is. ' Bond looked again over his shoulder. The patron was discussing the menu with the new customer. It was a perfectly normal scene. They exchanged smiles over some item on the menu and apparently agreed that it would suit, for the patron took the card and with, Bond guessed, a final exchange about the wine, withdrew. The man seemed to realize that he was being watched. He looked up and gazed incuriously at them for a moment. Then he reached for a brief-case on the chair beside him, extracted a newspaper, and started to read it, his elbows propped up on the table. When the man had turned his face towards them, Bond noticed that he had a black patch over one eye. It was not tied with a tape across, the eye, but screwed in like a monocle. Otherwise he seemed a friendly middleaged man, with dark brown hair brushed straight back and, as Bond had seen while he was talking to the patron, particularly large, white teeth. He turned back to Vesper. 'Really, darling. He looks very innocent. Are you sure he's the same man? We can' t expect to have this place entirely to ourselves. ' Vesper's face was still a white mask. She was clutching the edge of the table with both hands. He thought she was going to faint and almost rose to come round to her, but she made a gesture to stop him. Then she reached for a glass of wine and took a deep draught. The glass rattled on her teeth, and she brought up her other hand to help. Then she put the glass down. She looked at him with dull eyes. 'I know it's the same.' He tried to reason with her, but she paid no attention. After glancing once or twice over his shoulder with eyes that held a curious submissiveness, she said that her headache was still bad and that she would spend the afternoon in her room. She left the table and walked indoors without a backward glance. Bond was determined to set her mind at rest. He ordered coffee to be brought to the table, and then he rose and walked swiftly through to the courtyard. The black Peugeot which stood there might indeed have been the saloon they had seen, but it might equally have been one of a million others on the French roads. He took a quick glance inside, but the interior, was empty and when he tried the boot, it was locked. He made a note of the Paris number-plate; then he went quickly to the lavatory adjoining the dining-room, pulled the chain, and walked out on to the terrace. The man was eating and didn't look up. Bond sat down in Vesper's chair so that he could watch the other table. A few minutes later the man asked for the bill, paid it, andieft. Bond heard the Peugeot start up, and soon the noise of its exhaust had disappeared in the direction of the road to Royale. When the patron came back to his table, Bond explained that Madame had unfortunately a slight touch of sunstroke. After the patron had expressed his regret and enlarged on the dangers of going out of doors in almost any weather, Bond casually asked about the other customer. 'He reminds me of a friend who also lost an eye. They wear similar black patches.' The patron answered that the man was a stranger. He had been pleased with his lunch and had said that he would be passing that way again in a day or two and would take another meal at the auberge. Apparently he was Swiss, which could also be seen from his accent. He was a traveller in watches. It was shocking to have only one eye. The strain of keeping that patch in place all day long. He supposed one got used to it. 'It is indeed very sad,' said Bond. 'You also have been unlucky,' he gestured to the proprietor's empty sleeve. 'I myself was very fortunate. ' For a time they talked about the war. Then Bond rose. 'By the way,' he said, 'Madame had an early telephone call which I must remember to pay for. Paris. An Elysee number, I think,' he added, remembering that that was Mathis's exchange. 'Thank you, monsieur, but the matter is regulated. I was speaking to Royale this morning and the exchange mentioned that one of my guests had put through a call to Paris and that there had been no answer. They wanted to know if Madame would like the call kept in. I'm afraid the matter escaped my mind. Perhaps Monsieur would mention it to Madame. But, let me see, it was an Invalides number the exchange referred to. ' 'Sleep Well, My Darling'  The next two days were much the same. On the fourth day of their stay Vesper went off early to Royale. A taxi came and fetched her and brought her back. She said she needed some medicine. That night she made a special effort to be gay. She drank a lot, and when they went upstairs she led him into her bedroom and made passionate love to him. Bond's body responded; but afterwards she cried bitterly into her pillow, and Bond went to his room in grim despair. < He could hardly sleep, and in the early hours he heard her door open softly. Some small sounds came from downstairs. He was sure she was in the telephone-booth. Very soon he heard her door softly close, and he guessed that again there had been no reply from Paris. This was Saturday. On Sunday the man with the black patch was back again. Bond knew it, directly he looked up from his lunch and saw her face. He had told her all that the patron had told him, withholding only the man's statement that he might be back. He had thought it would worry her. He had also telephoned Mathis in Paris and checked on the Peugeot. It had been hired from a respectable firm two weeks before. The customer had had a Swiss triptique. His name was Adoiph Gettler. He had given a bank in Zurich as his address. Mathis had got on to the Swiss police. Yes, the bank had an account in his name. It was little usedHerr Gettler was understood to be connected with the watch industry. Inquiries could be pursued if there was a charge against him. Vesper had shrugged her shoulders at the information. This time when the man appeared she left her lunch in the middle and went straight up to her room. Bond made up his mind. When he had finished, he followed her. Both her doors were locked, and when he made her let him in he saw that she had been sitting in the shadows by the window— watching, he presumed. Her face was of cold stone. He led her to the bed and drew her down beside him. They sat stiffly, like people in a railway carriage. ' 'Vesper,' he said, holding her cold hands in his, 'we can't go on like this. We must finish with it. We are torturing each other, and there is only one way of stopping it. Either you must tell me what all this is about or we must leave. At once.' She said nothing, and her hands were lifeless in his. 'My darling,' he said. 'Won't you tell me? Do you know, that first morning I was coming back to ask you to marry me. Can't we go back to the beginning again? What is this dreadful nightmare that is killing us? ' At first she said nothing, then a tear rolled slowly down her cheek. 'You mean you would have married me?' Bond nodded. 'Oh, my God!' she cried. 'My God!' She turned and clutched him, pressing her face against his chest. He held her closely to him. 'Tell me, my love,' he j said. 'Tell me what's hurting you.' Her sobs became quieter. Leave me for a little,' she said. A new note had come ' into her voice: a note of resignation. 'Let me think for a little.' She kissed his face and held it between her hands. She looked at him with yearning. 'Darling, I'm trying to do what's best for us. Please believe me. But it's terrible. I'm in a frightful...' She wept again, clutching him like a child with nightmares. He soothed her, stroking the long black hair and kissing her softly. 'Go away now,' she said. 'I must have time to think. We've got to do something.' She took his handkerchief and dried her eyes. She led him to the door, and there they held tightly to each other. Then he kissed her again, and she shut the door behind him. That evening most of the gayness and intimacy of their first night came back. She was excited, and some of her laughter sounded brittle;, but Bond was determined to fall in with her new mood, and it was only at the end of dinner that he had made a passing remark which made her pause. She put her hand over his. 'Don't talk about it now,' she said. 'Forget it now. It's all past. I'll tell you about it in the morning.' She looked at him, and suddenly her eyes were full of tears. She found a handkerchief in her bag and dabbed at them. 'Give me some more champagne,' she said. She gave a queer little laugh. 'I want a lot more. You drink much more than me. It's not fair.' They sat and drank together until the bottle was finished. Then she got to her feet. She knocked against her chair and giggled. 'I do believe I'm tight,' she said. 'How disgraceful! Please, James, don't be ashamed of me. I do so want to be gay. And I am gay.' She stood behind him and ran her fingers through his black hair. 'Come up quickly, ' she said. She blew a kiss at him and was gone. For two hours they made slow, sweet love in a mood of happy passion which, the day before, Bond would never have thought they could regain. The barriers of self-consciousness and mistrust seemed to have vanished; the words they spoke to each other were innocent and true again, and there was no shadow between them. 'You must go now,' said Vesper when Bond had slept for a while in her arms. As if to take back her words she held him more closely to her, murmuring endearments and pressing her body down the whole length of his. When he finally rose and bent to smooth back her hair and finally kiss her eyes and her mouth good night, she reached out and turned on the light. 'Look at me,' she said, 'and let me look at you.' He knelt beside her. She examined every line of his face as if she were seeing him for the first time. Then she reached up and put an arm round his neck. Her deep blue -eyes were swimming with tears as she drew his head slowly towards her and kissed him gently on the lips. Then she let him go and turned off the light. 'Good night, my dearest love, ' she said. Bond bent and kissed her. He tasted the tears on her cheek. . He Went to the door and looked back. 'Sleep well, my darling,' he said. 'Don't worry, everything's all right now. ' He closed the door softly and walked to his room with ' a full heart.   The patron brought him the letter in the morning. He burst into Bond's room, holding the envelope in front of him as if it were on fire. 'There has been a terrible accident. Madame — ' Bond hurled himself out of bed and through the bathroom, but the communicating door was locked. He dashed back and through his room and down the corridor past a shrinking, terrified maid. Vesper's door was open. The sunlight through the shutters lit up the room. Only her black hair showed aboye the sheet, and her body under the bedclothes was straight and moulded like a stone effigy on a tomb. Bond fell on his knees beside her and drew back the sheet. She was asleep. She must be. Her 'eyes were closed. There was no change in the dear face. She was just as she would look, and yet, and yet she was so still — no movement, no pulse, no breath. That was it. There was no breath. Later the patron came and touched him on the shoulder. He pointed at the empty glass on the table beside her. There were white dregs in the bottom of it. It stood beside her book and her cigarettes and matches and the small pathetic litter of her mirror and lipstick and handkerchief. And on the floor the empty bottle of sleeping-pills, the pills Bond had seen in the bathroom that first evening. Bond rose to his feet and shook himself. The patron was still holding out the letter towards him. He took it. 'Please notify the Commissaire,' said Bond. 'I will be in my roW when he wants me. ' He walked blindly away without a backward glance. He sat on the edge of his bed and gazed out of the window at the peaceful sea. Then he stared dully at the . envelope. It was addressed simply in a large round hand, 'Pour Lui.' The thought passed through Bond's mind that she must have left orders to be called early, so that he would not be the one to find her. , He turned the envelope over. Not long ago her warm tongue had sealed the flap. He gave a sudden shrug and opened it. It was not long. After the first few words he read it quickly, the breath coming harshly through his nostrils. Then he threw it down on the bed as if it had been a scorpion. My darling James [the letter opened], I love you with all my heart, and while you read these words I hope you still love me because, now, . with these words, this is the last moment that your love will last. So goodbye, my sweet love, while we still love each other. Goodbye, my darling. I am an agent of the M. W.D. Yes, I am a  double agent for the Russians. I was taken on a year after the war, and I have worked for them ever since. I was in love with a Pole in the R.A.F. Until you, I still was. You can find out who he was. He had two D.S.O.'s, and after the war he was trained by M. and dropped back into Poland. They caught him, and by torturing him they found out a lot and also about me. They came after me and told me he could live if I would work for them. He knew nothing of this, but he was allowed 'to write to me. The letter arrived on the fifteenth of each month. I found I couldn't stop. I couldn't bear the idea of a fifteenth coming round without his letter. It would mean that I had killed him. I tried to give them as little as possible. You must believe me about this. Then it came to you. I told, them you had been given this job. at Royale, what your cover was, and so on. That is why they knew about you before you arrived, and why they had time to put the microphones in. They suspected Le Chiffre, but they didn't know what your assignment was except that it was something to do with him. That was all I told them. Then I was told not to stand behind you in the Casino, and to see that neither Mathis nor Leiter did. That was why the gunman was nearly able to shoot you. Then I had to stage that kidnapping. You may have wondered why I was so quiet in the night club. They didn't hurt me because I was working for M.W.D. But. when I found out what had been done to you, even though it was Le Chiffre who did it and he turned out to be a traitor, I decided I couldn't go on. By that time I had begun to fall in love with you. They wanted me to find out things from you while you were recovering, but I refused. I was controlled from Paris. I had to ring up an Invalides number twice a day. They threatened me;  and finally they withdrew my control, and I knew my lover in Poland would have to die. But they were afraid I would talk, I suppose, and I got a final warning that SMERSH would come for me if I didn't obey them. I took no notice, I was in love with you. Then I saw the man with the black patch in the Splendide, and I found he had been making inquiries about my movements. This was the day before we came down here. I hoped I could shake him off. I decided that we would have an affair and I Would escape to South America from Le Havre. I hoped I would have a baby of yours and be able to start again somewhere. But they followed us. You can't get away from them. I knew it would be the end of our love if I told you. I realized that I could either wait to be killed by Smersh and perhaps get you killed too, or I could kill myself. There it is, my darling love. You can't stop me calling you that or saying that I love you. I am taking that with me, and the memories of you. I can't tell yoU much to help you. The Paris number was Invalides 55200. I never met any of them in London. Everything was done through an accommodation address, a news-agent's at Charing Cross Place. At our first dinner together you talked about that man in Yugoslavia who was found guilty of treason. He said: 'I was carried away by the gale of the world.' That's my only excuse. That, and for love of the man whose life I tried to save. It's late now and I'm tired, and you're just through two doors. But I've got to be brave. You might save my life, but I couldn't bear the look in your dear eyes. My love, my love. V. Bond threw the letter down. Mechanically he brushed his fingers together. Suddenly he banged his temples with his fists and stood up. For a moment he looked out towards the quiet sea, then he cursed aloud, One harsh obscenity. His eyes were wet, and he dried them. He pulled on a shirt and trousers, and with a set cold face he walked down and shut himself in the telephonebooth. While he was getting through to London, he calmly reviewed the facts of Vesper's letter. They all fitted. The little shadows and question marks of the past four weeks, which his instinct had noted but his mind rejected, all stood out now like signposts. He saw her now only as a spy. Their love and his grief were relegated to the boxroom of his mind. Later, perhaps they would be dragged out, dispassionately examined, and then bitterly thrust back with other sentimental baggage he would rather forget. Now he could only think of her treachery to the Service and to her country, and of the damage it had done. His professional mind was completely absorbed with the consequences — the covers which must have been blown over the years, the codes which the enemy must have broken, the secrets which must have leaked from the centre of the very section devoted to penetrating the Soviet Union. It was ghastly. God knew how the mess would be cleared up. He ground his teeth. Suddenly Mathis's words came back to him: 'There are plenty of really black targets around,' and, earlier, 'What about SMERSH? I don't like the idea of these chaps running around France killing anyone they feel has been a traitor to their precious political system.' Bond grinned bitterly to himself. How soon Mathis had been proved right, and how soon his own little sophistries had been exploded in his face! While he, Bond, had been playing Red Indians through the years (yes, Le Chiffre's description was perfectly accurate), the real enemy had been working quietly, coldly, without heroics, right there at his elbow. He suddenly had a vision of Vesper walking down a corridor with documents in her hand. On a tray. They just got it on a tray while the cool secret agent with a Double O number was gallivanting round the world— playing Red Indians. His fingernails dug into the palms of his hands, and his body sweated with shame. Well, it was not too late. Here was a target for him, right to hand. He would take on SMERSH and hunt it down* Without smersh, without this cold weapon of death and revenge, the M.W.D. would be just another bunch of civil servant spies, no better and no worse than any of the western services. SMERSH was the spur. Be faithful, spy well, or you die. Inevitably and without any question, you will be hunted down and killed. It was the same with the whole Russian machine. Fear was the impulse. For them it was always safer to ad-' Vance than to retreat. Advance against the enemy, and the bullet might miss you. Retreat, evade, betray, and the bullet would never miss.But now he would attack the arm that held the whip and the gun. The business of espionage could be left to the white-collar boys. They could spy and catch the spies. He would go after the threat behind the spies, the threat that made them spy. The telephone rang, and Bond snatched up the receiver. He was on to 'the Link,' the outside liaison officer who was the only man in London he might telephone from abroad. Then only in dire necessity. He spoke quietly into the receiver. 'This is speaking. This isan open. line. It's an emergency. Can you hear me? . . . Pass this on at once: 3030 was a double, working for Redland. . . . 'Yes, dammit, I said "was. " The bitch is dead now. '﻿_UNITED NATIONS, N.Y., June 16, 1981--(AP)--In one of
the most impressive ceremonies ever held in the United Nations building,
the world celebrated today the 25th anniversary of the discovery of the
"Golden Judge."_

_General Terence P. O'Reilly, USA (Retired), the man responsible for the
discovery, was the principal guest of honor. Obviously moved by the
acclaim from virtually every member nation, Gen. O'Reilly made a brief
speech recapturing for a moment the accidental circumstances of 25 years
ago that so drastically reduced world tensions...._

     *     *     *     *     *

It was stifling hot in Jerusalem in the afternoon of June 16, 1956, and
Major General Terence Patrick O'Reilly, United States Army, was rather
more bored than usual. His Army career had gone well--two stars already
at forty-five--until the mysterious workings of the Pentagon had given
him perhaps the most frustrating posting a soldier could have.

He was chairman of the mixed United Nations armistice commission trying
to keep the uneasy peace between Israel and her Arab neighbors. For
months he had presided over unending investigations of border incidents,
some petty, some not so petty. He had signed reports reprimanding and
recommending and approving, but nothing ever came of them, and he no
longer expected anything ever would.

Today's hearing was different, and not strictly in his field. But
because he was an engineer, and because both Arabs and Israelis trusted
him, he had agreed to listen to their opposing arguments on using the
waters of the River Jordan.

Too many years ago, the United States had offered to provide most of the
funds for a "little TVA" on the river, benefitting both Israel and
Jordan alike. At first, both had refused outright to have anything to do
with the other. But over the years, skillful negotiating by Eric
Johnston, the American President's personal envoy, had brought Israel
and Jordan closer and closer together--until now they agreed on the
disposal of ninety per cent of the water.

But farther than this they would not go. For months, years, they balked
on the remaining ten per cent, and the dams remained only blueprints.

Terence O'Reilly was sick unto death of the arguments, and thought
everyone else was, too. He had heard them over and over; he knew them by
heart. He knew they were evenly balanced, with justice on both sides. He
knew both nations longed for a settlement, but he knew neither would
back down, for reasons of "face." Worst of all, he knew that any
decision of his was meaningless. It was purely advisory, and he knew all
too well what "advisory" opinions counted for out here.

Yet he tried to look interested as the delegate from Jordan wearily
produced an argument that every man in the conference room could recite
word for word.

In a brief lull, General O'Reilly groaned: "Why don't they toss a coin
for it?"

It was not as _sotto voce_ as he meant.

The Arab delegate stared at him. "I beg your pardon!"

Flushing, General O'Reilly apologized, but the Arab was already talking
excitedly to his fellow delegates. Puzzled, O'Reilly heard a confused
babble of Arabic, then sudden silence.

The Arab delegate had a glint in his eye as he asked for the floor.

"In the name of my country," he said proudly, "we agree!"

The word "agree" had not been heard in this chamber for many months, and
General O'Reilly wondered if he had heard aright. "Agree?" he stared.
"Agree to what?"

"To toss a coin for it, as the chairman has proposed," the Arab said.
"That is, it the Israeli delegation has the courage, the sportsmanship
to agree." He looked tauntingly to his rivals across the room.

The Israeli leader sprang to his feet, indignant. "I protest, Mr.
Chairman, to this frivolous treatment of a serious matter, which will
affect the future of--"

He felt silent, aware of the contemptuous smiles on the faces of the
Arabs.

General O'Reilly kept his countenance. He said mildly: "Of course, if
you are not willing to risk the luck of--"

"We are afraid of nothing, sir!" the Israeli snapped. "We are as
sporting as anyone else, but--" One of his fellow delegates whispered
something to him. Then the whole Israeli delegation talked in low
voices. Finally the leader rose again. "Will you permit me to telephone
my minister?"

Gravely the general recessed the meeting for thirty minutes. In his own
room, he stared at himself in the mirror, still dazed.

"My God!" he breathed. "They can't be taking it seriously!"

But why not? If the arguments were so evenly balanced that not even
Solomon could have chosen, if they really wanted a settlement, if they
could never give in without losing "face"--why, what better method than
to trust it to the fall of a coin? Still--things just didn't happen that
way.

When the thirty minute recess ended, the Israeli delegate arose. He
glared across the room and announced defiantly: "My government also
agrees! Let the coin decide!"

The conference broke into clamor, but General O'Reilly had long since
learned the value of prudence in Jerusalem. "The chairman agrees," he
said judicially, "that in the circumstances, this is perhaps an
excellent solution, perhaps the only solution. But this has been, to say
the least, somewhat impulsive. Let me suggest both sides return to their
governments and consider this well. Then, if you are both still
willing, let us meet here one week from today, in this room--and the
coin will decide!"

     *     *     *     *     *

He had expected second thoughts, and he was not disappointed. Extremists
on both sides of the Jordan screamed with indignation. Yet, oddly, most
people seemed strangely excited, even pleased by the sporting
proposition. They began to lay bets on the outcome.

And both governments held firm. Probably, the general speculated,
because they both wanted a solution--and there was no other solution in
sight. Also, each hated to be the first to back down from a fair bet. It
became a matter of honor.

On the week end, General O'Reilly flew to Cairo to meet some friends
passing through on a world tour. Like all tourists, they went to the
Mouski, Cairo's great bazaar, and it was there, in the Street of the
Goldsmiths, that the general got his idea.

It cost him a chunk of money, out of his own pocket, but like most
Irishmen, he was a sporting man himself. After all, he grinned to
himself, I started the whole business, and I might as well do it up in
style.

He had decided that no ordinary coin would do for such an historic
occasion. So he had a goldsmith make him a heavy solid-gold medallion
almost twice as big as a twenty-dollar gold piece. He was not very much
pleased with the design he sketched out hastily, but on the spur of the
moment, he could think of nothing better.

The "Heads" side of the great coin bore a _front_ view of the blind
goddess of justice, with her scales. The "Tails" side had a _rear_ view
of the same lady.

It was rather crudely done, but time was short. "It'll have to do," the
general chuckled, as the plane bore him back to Jerusalem.

     *     *     *     *     *

When the appointed day came, the United Nations conference room in
Jerusalem was jammed with Israeli and Arab officials, and with a pack of
correspondents who had magically appeared.

General O'Reilly had decided against asking each side to put its
agreement into writing. A true gentleman's agreement shouldn't be
written, he concluded. He merely asked the leaders for each side if they
agreed to abide by the fall of the coin. Solemnly, both assented.

Courteously, the Israelis had allowed the Arabs to call while the coin
was still in the air. There was silence as General O'Reilly flipped it
high up towards the ceiling.

"Tails!" cried the Arab leader.

The spinning coin glittered, falling onto the green baize table. The
general looked at it. The goddess had her back turned.

"It is tails," he announced, and the Arab delegation broke into happy
shouts.

And, astonishingly, that was that. The leading Tel-Aviv newspaper summed
up Israeli feeling when it wrote in an editorial: "Certainly there were
many heavy hearts in our country when the coin fell against us. But let
us show the world that we are true sportsmen. We risked, and we lost.
Let this be the end of it."

Work began on the dams at last, without interference or protest. Not a
word was ever written on paper, but it was the only agreement between
the two countries that was scrupulously kept by both sides.

It was, of course, a wonderful story. The name of Terence O'Reilly swam
suddenly into the headlines, and his wife began keeping a scrapbook of
all the clippings. One among them was destined to be more potent in
world affairs than all the rest. It was a "profile" of General O'Reilly
published in a great American magazine, and it was notable for two
things.

To begin with, it was the author of this profile who first gave the coin
the name by which it soon became so famous--the "Golden Judge."

But it also contained a casual, seemingly insignificant remark by
General O'Reilly. When the interviewer had asked how he happened to
think of the coin-tossing idea, the general had grinned. "Why not?" he
said. "Aren't the Irish the gamblingest people on earth?"

And it was this innocent sentence, hardly noticed at the time, that
started the "Golden Judge" on its fantastic career, and kept it from
being a mere nine-day wonder.

For a Chinese Communist diplomat in Berne, Switzerland, happened to see
it and, one night at a dinner party, he said mockingly: "This stupid
American general in Jerusalem is obviously ignorant of the world.
Otherwise, he would realize that no nation on earth loves gambling so
much as the Chinese. Anyone who knows the Orient will tell you this."

This made good cocktail party talk, a thing desperately needed in Berne,
and eventually reached the ears of an Associated Press correspondent. He
filed a paragraph on it for a box story and, in the inevitable way of
the press, a reporter in Jerusalem asked General O'Reilly for his
comment.

"Well," he said, "I've heard the Chinese are great gamblers indeed,
although whether more so than the Irish I beg leave to doubt."

Then his eyes twinkled. "Why don't they prove it? Why don't they toss a
coin, say, for Quemoy and Matsu? The danged little places aren't worth a
nickel to either side, and well they both know it. But they'll neither
of them back down a hair, for losing face. I say, if they think they're
the greatest gamblers on earth, let 'em prove it!"

This sped into print, caused a world-wide stir, and brought General
O'Reilly a sizzling reprimand from the Department of the Army. He was
not REPEAT NOT to express opinions about the value of allied territory.

He read the reprimand ruefully, reminded himself that another great
Irish failing was too much talk--and said good-by to any hopes for a
third star.

     *     *     *     *     *

But this was before the black headlines from Formosa. With popping eyes,
General O'Reilly read that the Chinese Nationalist Foreign Minister had
taken up the challenge. He offered to toss a coin with the Chinese
Communists for Quemoy and Matsu!

"I'll be jiggered!" the general breathed. "They'll fight about
everything else, but be damned if they'll admit the Irish are bigger
gamblers than the Chinese! Now let's see what the Commies say."

Peking was silent for two weeks. Then, in a broadcast from Radio Peking,
Chou En-Lai made his reply.

He agreed--but with conditions. He insisted on a neutral commission to
supervise the toss, half Communist members, half non-Communist. World
observers, weary of neutral commissions that never achieved anything,
interpreted this as a delaying tactic and agreed the whole thing would
fall through.

"This is further proof," the Nationalist Foreign Minister commented with
icy scorn, "that the Communists are no longer real Chinese. For any
Chinese worthy of the name would not be afraid to risk the fall of the
coin."

But Marx had not quite liquidated the gambling fever that runs strong in
the blood of any Chinese, be he ever so Communist.

Stung, Chou En-Lai retorted: "We agree! Let the coin decide!"

It was agreed that Prime Minister Nehru of India, as a neutral, should
supervise the matter, and that New Delhi would be the scene of the
actual tossing. And Nehru thought it fitting to invite General O'Reilly,
as the father of the whole thing, to bring the same "Golden Judge" to
India, to be used again.

The general came gladly, but declined to make the toss himself. "My
country is too closely involved in this matter," he explained, "and
there might be talk if an American made the toss."

He suggested Nehru himself do it, and the Prime Minister agreed.

The actual tossing was done in the great governmental palace, and
Communist China won. Chiang Kai Shek's delegate bowed impassively and
said coolly that his government yielded without question to the goddess
of chance.

That night the Indian Prime Minister was host to a glittering official
banquet to celebrate the ending of the "offshore island" crisis.

"And we must lift our glasses," he said eloquently after dinner, "to the
man who discovered this eminently sane method of settling quarrels--a
method so sensible, so fair that it is difficult to believe that in all
the world's long search for peace, it has not been discovered before. I
give you General O'Reilly!"

The general rose to loud applause. He expressed his thanks modestly, and
disclaimed any merit except that of pure luck. Then he held up the
"Golden Judge" itself, with a gleam in his eye.

"I hope," he said, "that this coin will have still more work to do.
Surely there are still disputed places in the world, where justice lies
on both sides, where only 'face-saving' prevents a settlement. And
surely it is better to resort to this coin than to force and war and
bitter arguments that drag on year after year."

"Hear! Hear!" Nehru cried, leading the applause. General O'Reilly stood
smiling until it died away.

"Places like Kashmir," he said clearly.

There was a gasp of laughter, quickly hushed. Nehru's face was pale with
anger; he was famous for his temper. And everyone knew how India and
Pakistan had quarreled for years over Kashmir, and that all the efforts
of the United Nations had come to nothing so far.

"I was delighted to hear Prime Minister Nehru say," General O'Reilly
went on calmly, "how much he approved this method of settling old
disputes. And I should be very glad to help--with this." Smiling, he
tossed the Golden Judge in the air and caught it again.

Nehru could keep silent no longer. Like a skilled Oriental debater, he
struck back indirectly. "We thank General O'Reilly," he said acidly,
"for his kind offer, but perhaps it should be first used by his own
people, the Irish, of whose gambling prowess he is so proud. Surely no
bitterness has lasted longer than that between the Republic of Ireland
and the 'Six Lost Counties' of Northern Ireland. Let the Irish use the
Golden Judge themselves before they counsel it for others!"

But General O'Reilly was unruffled. "I'm an American, myself," he said,
smiling, "although proud indeed of my Irish blood. And the _Irish_ Irish
will have to speak for themselves, although I venture to say you'll find
them a sporting people indeed. But that's not quite the point, is it?
'Twas you yourself, sir, who praised the Golden Judge so highly. And
you've seen today what fine sportsmen the Chinese are. The point is, are
the _Indians_ a sporting people?"

"Of course we're a sporting people!" Nehru glared.

"Then I take it you'd be willing, assuming Pakistan agrees, of course,
but I'm told they're a _very_ sporting people, to--" The general tossed
the coin again, absent-mindedly.

"All right!" Nehru grated. "If they agree, so do we!"

     *     *     *     *     *

It took a month before Pakistan could agree, and all the arrangements be
made for the Toss on Kashmir. But in that month, the world had other
things to think about. Chiang Kai Shek accepted his gambling loss
without a murmur and removed his troops from Quemoy and Matsu, the
American Seventh Fleet helping, the Communists not interfering. All
civilians on the islands who wished to go to Formosa were taken there.

Washington said little officially, but in the corridors of the
Pentagon, Congress and the White House, the sighs of relief reached gale
force. General O'Reilly received a confidential and personal message
from the Army Chief of Staff that made him pink with pleasure.

"May get that third star after all," he told his wife that night. "And
not too long to wait, maybe."

But, above all, the month was filled with clamor from Ireland. Her
Majesty's Government in Whitehall had immediately issued a communiqué
which took a glacial view of the "puerile" proposal to toss for Northern
Ireland. It was the timing of this communiqué, rather than its contents,
that proved a tactical error. It had come too quickly, and Irishmen,
both north and south, resented it.

As a Belfast newspaper wrote tartly: "Irishmen on both sides of the line
are quite able to decide such matters for themselves, without the
motherly interference of London."

Dublin agreed in principle to toss, but the wrangling over conditions
and exceptions boiled up into the greatest inter-Irish quarreling of
twenty years. It was still raging when General O'Reilly flew into the
Vale of Kashmir with a broad smile and the Golden Judge.

Again the great coin glittered high in the air while none other than
Nehru himself called out, tensely: "Heads!"

It fell "Tails."

"So be it!" Nehru said calmly, shaking hands with the Governor-General
of Pakistan.

"Well, general," Nehru said, turning to O'Reilly with a smile, "are you
satisfied now? I think we've proved we're a sporting people. So have the
Chinese, and the Jews and the Arabs. But what about your own folk, the
Irish? From what I read, their sporting qualities seem to be highly
overrated. I'd say they'd never gamble but on a sure thing."

The general's face went red at the insult, and so, a day later, did the
collective face of all Irishmen, North and South. For a while there was
aghast silence from the Emerald Isle, a silence sullen and embarrassed.
And then a great rumbling roar of indignation.

"Mr. Speaker!" cried a member of the Dail in Dublin. "Are the Irish
people, who honor great gamblers only a little less than great poets,
to be outdone by dark-skinned heathen? Mr. Speaker, I say _no_!"

The following morning, the government of Eire formally offered to toss
for the Six Lost Counties and, if the coin fell contrary, to say no more
about them forever. Belfast agreed that same afternoon, and the whole
island went wild with excitement. Hardly any Irishman failed to place
some kind of side bet on the outcome, and stakes were laid that day that
would be spoken of with prideful awe for generations to come.

The remark of a Limerick drayman was widely quoted. "There's not a man
of us here," he commented in the course of a game of darts at the Sword
and Shamrock, "but would toss a coin for his grandmother's head, and
well ye know it. So after all the blatherin' and yowrin', why not have a
go for the Six Counties, and let the coin decide it now and foriver,
once and for all, win or lose?"

The British Government surrendered with grace, and offered to play host
to the toss in London, as a neutral place. They soon learned, with
burning ears, that the last place on earth any Irishman considered
neutral was London.

As a matter of course, General O'Reilly was invited to preside, using
the Golden Judge. Like most Irishmen in America, he had long sung of and
sighed for the Auld Sod, while carefully avoiding going there, even for
a visit.

He now realized his error. He was received as one of Ireland's most
glorious sons. He was set upon by thousands, perhaps hundreds of
thousands, of proud O'Reillys--there were O'Reillys from the bogs and
O'Reillys from the great houses, O'Reillys in tophats and O'Reillys in
tam o' shanter. He was assured, and came near believing it, that in both
looks and wisdom, he was the spitting image of the Great O'Reilly, one
of the many last rightful Kings of Ireland. A minstrel composed a lay
about him, "The Golden Judge of Ireland"; he was smothered in shamrock,
and could have swum in the gifts of potheen. Secretly he much preferred
Scotch whisky to Irish, but the swarming O'Reillys made the disposal of
the potheen no very great problem.

     *     *     *     *     *

The actual toss took place in a small railroad station, hastily cleaned
up, on the railway line between Dublin and Belfast. Impartial surveyors
had certified it as being exactly astraddle the frontier.

Amid a deathlike hush, with a high sense of history in his heart,
General O'Reilly flipped the Golden Judge high in the air.

Eire won. The Six Counties were no longer lost, and there was little
enough work done in Ireland for a fortnight. Eire instantly and
magnanimously granted to her new north all the points that had been
fought over so bitterly for so many years. For the northerners, to their
surprise, life went on exactly as before, except for different postage
stamps, and a changed heading on their income-tax returns, which were
considerably lower. For the first time in many years, there were no
brickbats thrown if a man felt the need, on a summer night, to sing
"God Save the Queen."

General O'Reilly flew away from Ireland with a mist in his eyes and a
great glow in his heart. In a shaven second, he had achieved the thing
for which long and gallant generations of earlier O'Reillys had fought
bloodily and in vain. For a fleeting moment, he wondered if his nervous
right hand that day had shown any subconscious partisanship, but
rejected the thing as impossible. If the toss for the Six Counties was,
in a way, the crowning peak of General O'Reilly's career, it was by no
means the end of it. Both he and his coin were fast becoming settled
tradition. He continued his normal military career, but with the tacit
understanding he would have a few days' leave of absence whenever the
Golden Judge was needed.

He took it to Stockholm for the toss that settled the old and bitter
fishing controversy between Britain and Iceland. Britain won.

He took it to Cairo, where Britain and Greece tossed for Cyprus. Greece
won, and at once offered Britain all the bases she wanted there, and
granted special extraterritorial status to all British colonels,
knights' widows and former governors of the Punjab living in retirement
on the island.

He got his third star just before he flew down to Rio de Janiero for the
toss that finally settled the nagging quarrel between Britain and
Argentina as to who owned the Falkland Islands. Britain won.

He took it to The Hague in Holland for the toss about the Saar. The Saar
had remained a European sore point despite a series of Franco-German
"settlements" which never seemed to settle anything. Germany won the
toss, and immediately, of her own free will, granted the French equal
commercial rights.

The Saar toss had two odd results. The first was purely personal for
General O'Reilly, but he never forgot it. One day, driving through The
Hague, his official car passed a huge dignified building, which his
chauffeur explained was the World Court. With a strange feeling, the
general noticed a solemn old man in black, staring bleakly out the
window. He realized suddenly it was probably a judge, and that the
golden coin in his pocket had turned this costly mechanism into an
anachronism. Nobody used the World Court any more now.

The other result of the Saar toss was, from the viewpoint of world
jurisprudence, far more important. It transformed the Golden Judge from
a mere tradition into an established legal institution, in this manner:

France and Germany had been unable to agree whether the Saar was really
_tossable_--a term that soon entered dictionaries--and had appealed to
the United Nations to decide. A temporary or _ad hoc_ United Nations
commission had been named to settle this point and, after due
deliberation, had pronounced the Saar tossable.

Technically, this "Saar Commission" should have then dissolved itself.
Instead, in the way of parliamentary institutions, it lingered on and
soon became the accepted body to decide on tossability. And,
illogically, it was forever afterwards still called the "Saar
Commission."

Whenever, anywhere in the world, some international dispute reached
stalemate, it became commonplace for some delegate to rise and say: "Mr.
Chairman, I move the question be referred to the Saar Commission."

In due course, the Saar Commission would then give its solemn judgment
as to whether or not the dispute should be put to the arbitrament of the
Golden Judge. If so, General O'Reilly would board a plane, and be off.

Once the Saar Commission had its say, no nation ever dared refuse to put
a dispute to the hazard of the coin. Whereas nations yawned at being
called "warmongers" or "imperialists" or "aggressors" or "international
bandits," none could stand being called "bad sportsmen" or "poor
losers." So many nations had accepted the verdict of the Golden Judge,
that it became increasingly more difficult, not to say impossible, for a
given nation to admit it was less sporting than the others.

     *     *     *     *     *

However, not all disputes were held tossable, to the disappointment of
some people who had too quickly believed the Golden Judge would bring
immediate Utopia, the end of all quarreling forever. Gradually the Saar
Commission evolved certain criteria:

1. A dispute was not tossable if it might give great populations and
great nations over into systems of government they abhorred; it was
tossable only if the population involved had no very great bias one way
or the other.

2. A tossable dispute was one in which justice lay on both sides, evenly
balanced.

3. Tossing was clearly indicated where both sides ardently wished a
settlement, but where neither side was willing to cede an inch, for fear
of losing "face."

Thus the Saar Commission pronounced untossable the proposal by the
Soviet Union to have the Golden Judge decide whether or not America
should abandon all her overseas bases. It also turned down the
suggestion of an American senator that Russia and the United States
should toss for Soviet withdrawal from all Eastern Europe. It denied the
appeal of an idealistic Dane who wanted a toss to decide whether Germany
should be all Communist or all-Western. It likewise rejected a Swiss
proposal that Chiang Kai Shek and Chou En-Lai should toss again, this
time for Formosa itself.

In passing, it is of interest to note that only once did Soviet Russia
agree to toss. It was in the matter of her old dispute with Persia over
caviar fishing rights in the Caspian Sea. Persia won but, to the
consternation of the world, Russia refused to abide by the outcome. It
was the first and only time that the decision of the Golden Judge was
not obeyed, and it had startling repercussions.

All over the world, fellow-travelers abandoned the Soviet cause. They
had been able to find some excuses, however tortuous, for Russian
purges, forced confessions, concentration camps and aggressions, but
they turned away, shocked and saddened, from a nation that openly
welshed on a bet.

There were strong reactions within Russia itself,
although the convulsions were largely screened from Western eyes.
However, an unprecedented number of Russians fled across the Iron
Curtain, seeking asylum in the West. They said gloomily they could no
longer support a regime that reneged on its fair gambling losses, and
protested fiercely this was not the true soul of Russia.

In a gallant effort to recoup face for Russian sportsmanship, many of
these refugees grimly began playing almost non-stop games of "Russian
roulette," which gives the player a five-to-one chance of living. Some
extreme chauvinists proudly reduced the odds to three-to-one by
inserting two bullets, and a former Red Army major named Tolbunin even
used three. His _tour de force_ was widely admired, although not
repeated, and Tolbunin himself was given a magnificent funeral.

Yet, except for the Caspian caviar toss, the Golden Judge was obeyed as
unquestioningly as the Voice from Sinai, and perhaps more so. And if it
could be used only in what some called "minor" disputes, it was
surprising to see, once these were settled, how really few "major" ones
remained. It is impossible here, of course, to list more than a few of
General O'Reilly's tosses, but he flew to nearly every spot on earth, a
beloved world figure.

He flew to Ethiopia--and caught malaria there--to settle an old quarrel
between that country and the Sudan over a one-square-mile Sudanese
enclave named Gambela, well inside Ethiopia. A relic of the times when
Britain controlled the Sudan, Gambela had long been a thorn in the side
of the Conquering Lion of Judah. Although the Negus lost, he accepted
the verdict as uncomplainingly as earlier disputants, some three
thousand years before, had once accepted the awards of his putative
ancestor, King Solomon.

General O'Reilly ended a tiny but poisonous quarrel of many years'
standing as to whether British Honduras should become a part of the
Republic of Honduras. Britain won.

     *     *     *     *     *

In an epic tour in 1973 that left the world gasping with admiration,
General O'Reilly spread lasting balm on many sores in the Middle East.
The Golden Judge settled--in favor of Pakistan--her friction with
Afghanistan over the long-disputed Pathan territory. Saudi Arabia won
from Britain two small and completely worthless oases on the undefined
border between Saudi Arabia and Trucial Oman. These oases had, over the
years, produced many hot and vain notes, and desultory shooting, but the
Lord of Saudi Arabia was subsequently much disappointed that they never
produced oil. He was further dismayed when the Golden Judge awarded to
Iraq a "neutral zone" between the two countries, on which they had never
been able to agree, and this zone did, in fact, produce tremendous
amounts of oil. However, he complained only to Allah.

Syria and Turkey resorted to the toss to decide about the Sanjak of
Alexandretta (Iskanderun) which Turkey had been given by France back in
the Thirties, when France ran Syria. Turkey won. Damascus sighed but
smiled, and reopened diplomatic relations with Ankara that had been
severed for more than twenty years.

But on a golden January day in 1975, in Malaga, Spain, General
O'Reilly's aide-de-camp noticed that his chief seemed strangely
preoccupied. The occasion was a toss between Sweden and Finland as to
the possession of four large rocks lying in the sea at the head of the
Gulf of Bothnia, just off the Finno-Swedish frontier. These rocks, just
south of the Arctic circle, contained no population other than sea
gulls, but had been warmly claimed by both nations for years. And since
the weather in Scandinavia in January is miserable, the Finns and Swedes
had sagely decided to hold the toss in Malaga, which was as far south as
they could go and still be in Europe.

In public, General O'Reilly was himself--charming, dependable, cheerful.
He carried out the toss as gracefully as he had all the others, and he
made a winning speech at the banquet given by the Finns that night to
celebrate their acquisition of the four sub-Arctic rocks.

But the A.D.C. was not deluded and later, on the flight back to
Washington, he observed that General O'Reilly was unusually abstracted
and pensive, lost in thought. But since a major does not ask a
lieutenant general about such matters, he kept silent.

The fact was that the general had now reached sixty-five, and in the
American Army, sixty-five is retirement age. As the ocean fled away
under the racing plane, he was remembering a scene the week before in
the office of the Army Chief of Staff.

"It's up to you, Terry," the Chief of Staff had said. "You know
perfectly well that the President is willing, even eager, to keep you on
past the retirement age. You're a big man in the world now. You can stay
on the active list as long as you want. If necessary, he'll ask a
special law, and there won't be one vote against it."

Then the general remembered his wife: "You've done enough, darling. It's
time we had a real permanent home for once in our lives. That garden for
me, those Aberdeen Angus for you--remember? You've traveled too much;
you've never really gotten over that malaria. Darling, you need a rest.
You've earned it."

The general gazed out the plane window, trying to make up his mind. Then
suddenly he chuckled. The A.D.C. saw him pull a leather case out of
his pocket and watched, puzzled, as a golden coin spun briefly in the
air.

The general caught it on the back of his left hand, covering it with
his right. Then he removed the right, looked at it.

He chuckled again.

     *     *     *     *     *

When General O'Reilly retired the following week, the President asked
Congress for a fourth star for him and, in a special message, listed in
glowing terms the services he had rendered to America and the world. The
bill passed without a murmur, and Terence Patrick O'Reilly became at
last a full general.

Messages poured in from nearly every country in the world, from dozens
of presidents and premiers, and the handful of remaining kings. Along
with them came hundreds of gifts. They included a carved elephant tusk
from Nepal, a Royal Copenhagen dinner service for twenty-four from the
Kingdom of Denmark, a one-rupee note from a ten-year-old girl in Bombay
and--a gesture that excited much speculation--a case of caviar from the
Kremlin.

The Department of Defense announced that General O'Reilly had become the
most decorated soldier ever to wear American uniform. In every toss,
each of the rival sides had awarded him some kind of decoration. When he
wore full-dress uniform, the ribbons solidly covered both sides of his
tunic, and he was nearly strangled with various stars and orders that
dangled from ribbons around his neck.

"He retired just in time," his wife told her daughter-in-law one day at
tea. "There's not another square inch left for another ribbon."

General O'Reilly presented the Golden Judge to the United Nations, and
the King of Saudi Arabia proved his sportsmanship by having a
theft-proof case made for it of solid crystal, so that it could be on
public display. It was soon as visited and cherished as the Magna Carta
and the Liberty Bell. A night and day guard stood watch over it.

Yet it was far from a useless relic. Often the crystal case was empty,
and this meant it was seeing service somewhere in the world, in the
hands of a Swedish general who had finally been chosen by the United
Nations to succeed Terence O'Reilly.

In his final press interview, General O'Reilly unburdened himself of
some thoughts which--refined--have passed into international
jurisprudence under the name of O'Reilly's Law.

"For thousands of years," the general said thoughtfully, "mankind has
been making all kinds of commandments and laws and prohibitions and
contracts and treaties--and broken them all when the mood suited them.
Perhaps it's a sad thing to say, but so far nothing's ever been invented
that men will really live up to more than the terms of a bet. With very,
very few exceptions, a man--or a nation--will respect a bet when he
won't respect any other damned thing on earth!"﻿CHAPTER I

THE STOLEN MOTOR


"You are aware, I suppose, Marshall, that there have been considerably
over a million dollars' worth of automobiles stolen in this city during
the past few months?" asked Guy Garrick one night when I had dropped
into his office.

"I wasn't aware of the exact extent of the thefts, though of course I
knew of their existence," I replied. "What's the matter?"

"If you can wait a few moments," he went on, "I think I can promise you
a most interesting case--the first big case I've had to test my new
knowledge of crime science since I returned from abroad. Have you time
for it?"

"Time for it?" I echoed. "Garrick, I'd make time for it, if necessary."

We sat for several moments, in silence, waiting.

I picked up an evening paper. I had already read it, but I looked
through it again, to kill time, even reading the society notes.

"By Jove, Garrick," I exclaimed as my eye travelled over the page,
"newspaper pictures don't usually flatter people, but just look at
those eyes! You can fairly see them dance even in the halftone."

The picture which had attracted my attention was of Miss Violet
Winslow, an heiress to a moderate fortune, a debutante well known in
New York and at Tuxedo that season.

As Garrick looked over my shoulder his mere tone set me wondering.

"She IS stunning," he agreed simply. "Half the younger set are crazy
over her."

The buzzer on his door recalled us to the case in hand.

One of our visitors was a sandy-haired, red-mustached, stocky man, with
everything but the name detective written on him from his face to his
mannerisms.

He was accompanied by an athletically inclined, fresh-faced young
fellow, whose clothes proclaimed him to be practically the last word in
imported goods from London.

I was not surprised at reading the name of James McBirney on the
detective's card, underneath which was the title of the Automobile
Underwriters' Association. But I was more than surprised when the
younger of the visitors handed us a card with the simple name, Mortimer
Warrington.

For, Mortimer Warrington, I may say, was at that time one of the
celebrities of the city, at least as far as the newspapers were
concerned. He was one of the richest young men in the country, and good
for a "story" almost every day.

Warrington was not exactly a wild youth, in spite of the fact that his
name appeared so frequently in the headlines. As a matter of fact, the
worst that could be said of him with any degree of truth was that he
was gifted with a large inheritance of good, red, restless blood, as
well as considerable holdings of real estate in various active sections
of the metropolis.

More than that, it was scarcely his fault if the society columns had
been busy in a concerted effort to marry him off--no doubt with a
cynical eye on possible black-type headlines of future domestic
discord. Among those mentioned by the enterprising society reporters of
the papers had been the same Miss Violet Winslow whose picture I had
admired. Evidently Garrick had recognized the coincidence.

Miss Winslow, by the way, was rather closely guarded by a duenna-like
aunt, Mrs. Beekman de Lancey, who at that time had achieved a certain
amount of notoriety by a crusade which she had organized against
gambling in society. She had reached that age when some women naturally
turn toward righting the wrongs of humanity, and, in this instance, as
in many others, humanity did not exactly appreciate it.

"How are you, McBirney?" greeted Garrick, as he met his old friend,
then, turning to young Warrington, added: "Have you had a car stolen?"

"Have I?" chimed in the youth eagerly, and with just a trace of
nervousness. "Worse than that. I can stand losing a big
nine-thousand-dollar Mercedes, but--but--you tell it, McBirney. You
have the facts at your tongue's end."

Garrick looked questioningly at the detective.

"I'm very much afraid," responded McBirney slowly, "that this theft
about caps the climax of motor-car stealing in this city. Of course,
you realize that the automobile as a means of committing crime and of
escape has rendered detection much more difficult to-day than it ever
was before." He paused. "There's been a murder done in or with or by
that car of Mr. Warrington's, or I'm ready to resign from the
profession!"

McBirney had risen in the excitement of his revelation, and had handed
Garrick what looked like a discharged shell of a cartridge.

Garrick took it without a word, and turned it over and over critically,
examining every side of it, and waiting for McBirney to resume.
McBirney, however, said nothing.

"Where did you find the car?" asked Garrick at length, still examining
the cartridge. "We haven't found it," replied the detective with a
discouraged sigh.

"Haven't found it?" repeated Garrick. "Then how did you get this
cartridge--or, at least why do you connect it with the disappearance of
the car?"

"Well," explained McBirney, getting down to the story, "you understand
Mr. Warrington's car was insured against theft in a company which is a
member of our association. When it was stolen we immediately put in
motion the usual machinery for tracing stolen cars."

"How about the police?" I queried.

McBirney looked at me a moment--I thought pityingly. "With all
deference to the police," he answered indulgently, "it is the insurance
companies and not the police who get cars back--usually. I suppose it's
natural. The man who loses a car notifies us first, and, as we are
likely to lose money by it, we don't waste any time getting after the
thief."

"You have some clew, then?" persisted Garrick.

McBirney nodded.

"Late this afternoon word came to me that a man, all alone in a car,
which, in some respects tallied with the description of Warrington's,
although, of course, the license number and color had been altered, had
stopped early this morning at a little garage over in the northern part
of New Jersey."

Warrington, excited, leaned forward and interrupted.

"And, Garrick," he exclaimed, horrified, "the car was all stained with
blood!"




CHAPTER II

THE MURDER CAR


Garrick looked from one to the other of his visitors intently. Here was
an entirely unexpected development in the case which stamped it as set
apart from the ordinary.

"How did the driver manage to explain it and get away?" he asked
quickly.

McBirney shook his head in evident disgust at the affair.

"He must be a clever one," he pursued thoughtfully. "When he came into
the garage they say he was in a rather jovial mood. He said that he had
run into a cow a few miles back on the road, and then began to cuss the
farmer, who had stung him a hundred dollars for the animal."

"And they believed it?" prompted Garrick.

"Yes, the garage keeper's assistant swallowed the story and cleaned the
car. There was some blood on the radiator and hood, but the strange
part was that it was spattered even over the rear seat--in fact, was
mostly in the rear."

"How did he explain that?"

"Said that he guessed the farmer who stung him wouldn't get much for
the carcass, for it had been pretty well cut up and a part of it flung
right back into the tonneau."

"And the man believed that, too?"

"Yes; but afterward the garage keeper himself was told. He met the
farmer in town later, and the farmer denied that he had lost a cow.
That set the garage keeper thinking. And then, while they were cleaning
up the garage later in the day, they found that cartridge where the car
had been washed down and swept out. We had already advertised a reward
for information about the stolen car, and, when he heard of the reward,
for there are plenty of people about looking for money in that way, he
telephoned in, thinking the story might interest us. It did, for I am
convinced that his description of the machine tallies closely with that
of Mr. Warrington's."

"How about the man who drove it?" cut in Garrick.

"That's the unfortunate part of it," replied McBirney, chagrined.
"These amateur detectives about the country rarely seem to have any
foresight. Of course they could describe how the fellow was dressed,
even the make of goggles he wore. But, when it came to telling one
feature of his face accurately, they took refuge behind the fact that
he kept his cap pulled down over his eyes, and talked like a 'city
fellow.'"

"All of which is highly important," agreed Garrick. "I suppose they'd
consider a fingerprint, or the portrait parle the height of idiocy
beside that."

"Disgusting," ejaculated McBirney, who, whatever his own limitations
might be, had a wholesome respect for Garrick's new methods.

"Where did you leave the car?" asked Garrick of Warrington. "How did
you lose it?"

The young man seemed to hesitate.

"I suppose," he said at length, with a sort of resigned smile, "I'll
have to make a clean breast of it."

"You can hardly expect us to do much, otherwise," encouraged Garrick
dryly. "Besides, you can depend on us to keep anything you say
confidential."

"Why," he began, "the fact is that I had started out for a mild little
sort of celebration, apropos of nothing at all in particular, beginning
with dinner at the Mephistopheles Restaurant, with a friend of mine.
You know the place, perhaps--just on the edge of the automobile
district and the white lights."

"Yes," encouraged Garrick, "near what ought to be named 'Crime Square.'
Whom were you with?"

"Well, Angus Forbes and I were going to dine together, and then later
we were to meet several fellows who used to belong to the same
upperclass club with us at Princeton. We were going to do a little
slumming. No ladies, you understand," he added hastily.

Garrick smiled.

"It may not have been pure sociology," pursued Warrington,
good-humouredly noticing the smile, "but it wasn't as bad as some of
the newspapers might make it out if they got hold of it, anyhow. I may
as well admit, I suppose, that Angus has been going the pace pretty
lively since we graduated. I don't object to a little flyer now and
then, myself, but I guess I'm not up to his class yet. But that doesn't
make any difference. The slumming party never came off."

"How?" prompted Garrick again.

"Angus and I had a very good dinner at the Mephistopheles--they have a
great cabaret there--and by and by the fellows began to drop in to join
us. When I went out to look for the car, which I was going to drive
myself, it was gone."

"Where did you leave it?" asked McBirney, as if bringing out the
evidence.

"In the parking space half a block below the restaurant. A chauffeur
standing near the curb told me that a man in a cap and goggles--"

"Another amateur detective," cut in McBirney parenthetically.

"--had come out of the restaurant, or seemed to do so, had spun the
engine, climbed in, and rode off--just like that!"

"What did you do then?" asked Garrick. "Did you fellows go anywhere?"

"Oh, Forbes wanted to play the wheel, and went around to a place on
Forty-eighth Street. I was all upset about the loss of the car, got in
touch with the insurance company, who turned me over to McBirney here,
and the rest of the fellows went down to the Club."

"There was no trace of the car in the city?" asked Garrick, of the
detective.

"I was coming to that," replied McBirney. "There was at least a rumour.
You see, I happen to know several of the police on fixed posts up
there, and one of them has told me that he noticed a car, which might
or might not have been Mr. Warrington's, pull up, about the time his
car must have disappeared, at a place in Forty-seventh Street which is
reputed to be a sort of poolroom for women."

Garrick raised his eyebrows the fraction of an inch.

"At any rate," pursued McBirney, "someone must have been having a wild
time there, for they carried a girl out to the car. She seemed to be
pretty far gone and even the air didn't revive her--that is, assuming
that she had been celebrating not wisely but too well. Of course, the
whole thing is pure speculation yet, as far as Warrington's car is
concerned. Maybe it wasn't his car, after all. But I am repeating it
only for what it may be worth."

"Do you know the place?" asked Garrick, watching Warrington narrowly.

"I've heard of it," he admitted, I thought a little evasively.

Then it flashed over me that Mrs. de Lancey was leading the crusade
against society gambling and that that perhaps accounted for
Warrington's fears and evident desire for concealment.

"I know that some of the faster ones in the smart set go there once in
a while for a little poker, bridge, and even to play the races," went
on Warrington carefully. "I've never been there myself, but I wouldn't
be surprised if Angus could tell you all about it. He goes in for all
that sort of thing."

"After all," interrupted McBirney, "that's only rumour. Here's the
point of the whole thing. For a long time my Association has been
thinking that merely in working for the recovery of the cars we have
been making a mistake. It hasn't put a stop to the stealing, and the
stealing has gone quite far enough. We have got to do something about
it. It struck me that here was a case on which to begin and that you,
Garrick, are the one to begin it for us, while I carry on the regular
work I am doing. The gang is growing bolder and more clever every day.
And then, here's a murder, too, in all likelihood. If we don't round
them up, there is no limit to what they may do in terrorizing the city."

"How does this gang, as you call it, operate?" asked Garrick.

"Most of the cars that are stolen," explained McBirney, "are taken from
the automobile district, which embraces also not a small portion of the
new Tenderloin and the theatre district. Actually, Garrick, more than
nine out of ten cars have disappeared between Forty-second and
Seventy-second Streets."

Garrick was listening, without comment.

"Some of the thefts, like this one of Warrington's car," continued
McBirney, warming up to the subject, "have been so bold that you would
be astonished. And it is those stolen cars, I believe, that are used in
the wave of taxicab and motor car robberies, hold-ups, and other crimes
that is sweeping over the city. The cars are taken to some obscure
garage, without doubt, and their identity is destroyed by men who are
expert in the practice."

"And you have no confidence in the police?" I inquired cautiously,
mindful of his former manner.

"We have frequently had occasion to call on the police for assistance,"
he answered, "but somehow or other it has seldom worked. They don't
seem to be able to help us much. If anything is done, we must do it. If
you will take the case, Garrick, I can promise you that the Association
will pay you well for it."

"I will add whatever is necessary, too," put in Warrington, eagerly. "I
can stand the loss of the car--in fact, I don't care whether I ever get
it back. I have others. But I can't stand the thought that my car is
going about the country as the property of a gunman, perhaps--an engine
of murder and destruction."

Garrick had been thoughtfully balancing the exploded shell between his
fingers during most of the interview. As Warrington concluded, he
looked up.

"I'll take the case," he said simply. "I think you'll find that there
is more to it than even you suspect. Before we get through, I shall get
a conviction on that empty shell, too. If there is a gunman back of it
all, he is no ordinary fellow, but a scientific gunman, far ahead of
anything of which you dream. No, don't thank me for taking the case. My
thanks are to you for putting it in my way."




CHAPTER III

THE MYSTERY OF THE THICKET


"You know my ideas on modern detective work," Garrick remarked to me,
reflectively, when they had gone.

I nodded assent, for we had often discussed the subject.

"There must be something new in order to catch criminals, nowadays," he
pursued. "The old methods are all right--as far as they go. But while
we have been using them, criminals have kept pace with modern science."

I had met Garrick several months before on the return trip from abroad,
and had found in him a companion spirit.

For some years I had been editing a paper which I called "The
Scientific World," and it had taxed my health to the point where my
physician had told me that I must rest, or at least combine pleasure
with business. Thus I had taken the voyage across the ocean to attend
the International Electrical Congress in London, and had unexpectedly
been thrown in with Guy Garrick, who later seemed destined to play such
an important part in my life.

Garrick was a detective, young, university bred, of good family, alert,
and an interesting personality to me. He had travelled much, especially
in London, Paris, Berlin, and Vienna, where he had studied the amazing
growth abroad of the new criminal science.

Already I knew something, by hearsay, of the men he had seen, Gross,
Lacassagne, Reiss, and the now immortal Bertillon. Our acquaintance,
therefore, had rapidly ripened into friendship, and on our return, I
had formed a habit of dropping in frequently on him of an evening, as I
had this night, to smoke a pipe or two and talk over matters of common
interest in his profession.

He had paused a moment in what he was saying, but now resumed, less
reflectively, "Fortunately, Marshall, the crime-hunters have gone ahead
faster than the criminals. Now, it's my job to catch criminals. Yours,
it seems to me, is to show people how they can never hope to beat the
modern scientific detective. Let's strike a bargain."

I was flattered by his confidence. More than that, the idea appealed to
me, in fact was exactly in line with some plans I had already made for
the "World," since our first acquaintance.

And so it came about that the case brought to him by McBirney and young
Warrington was responsible for clearing our ideas as to our mutual
relationship and thus forming this strange partnership that has existed
ever since.

"Tom," he remarked, as we left the office quite late, after he had
arranged affairs as if he expected to have no time to devote to his
other work for several days, "come along and stay with me at my
apartment to-night. It's too late to do anything now until to-morrow."

I accepted his invitation without demur, for I knew that he meant it,
but I doubt whether he slept much during the night. Certainly he was up
and about early enough the following morning.

"That's curious," I heard him remark, as he ran his eye hastily over
the first page of the morning paper, "but I rather expected something
of the sort. Read that in the first column, Tom."

The story that he indicated had all the marks of having been dropped
into place at the last moment as the city edition went to press in the
small hours of the night.

It was headed:

GIRL'S BODY FOUND IN THICKET

The despatch was from a little town in New Jersey, and, when I saw the
date line, it at once suggested to me, as it had to Guy, that this was
in the vicinity that must have been traversed in order to reach the
point from which had come the report of the bloody car that had seemed
to tally with the description of that which Warrington had lost. It
read:

"Hidden in the underbrush, not ten feet from one of the most travelled
automobile roads in this section of the state, the body of a murdered
girl was discovered late yesterday afternoon by a gang of Italian
labourers employed on an estate nearby.

"Suspicion was at first directed by the local authorities at the
labourers, but the manner of the finding of the body renders it
improbable. Most of them are housed in some rough shacks up the road
toward Tuxedo and were able to prove themselves of good character.
Indeed, the trampled condition of the thicket plainly indicates,
according to the local coroner, that the girl was brought there,
probably already dead, in an automobile which drew up off the road as
far as possible. The body then must have been thrown where it would be
screened from sight by the thick growth of trees and shrubbery.

"There was only one wound, in the chest. It is, however, a most
peculiar wound, and shows that a terrific force must have been exerted
in order to make it. A blow could hardly have accomplished it, so
jagged were its edges, and if the girl had been struck by a passing
high-speed car, as was at first suggested, there is no way to account
for the entire lack of other wounds which must naturally have been
inflicted by such an accident.

"Neither is the wound exactly like a pistol or gunshot wound, for,
curiously enough, there was no mark showing the exit of a bullet, nor
was any bullet found in the body after the most careful examination.
The local authorities are completely mystified at the possible problems
that may arise out of the case, especially as to the manner in which
the unfortunate girl met her death.

"Until a late hour the body, which is of a girl perhaps twenty-three or
four, of medium height, fair, good looking, and stylishly dressed, was
still unidentified. She was unknown in this part of the country."

Almost before I had finished reading, Garrick had his hat and coat on
and had shoved into his pocket a little detective camera.

"Strange about the bullet," I ruminated. "I wonder who she can be?"

"Very strange," agreed Garrick, urging me on. "I think we ought to
investigate the case."

As we hurried along to a restaurant for a bite of breakfast, he
remarked, "The circumstances of the thing, coming so closely after the
report about Warrington's car, are very suspicious--very. I feel sure
that we shall find some connection between the two affairs."

Accordingly, we caught an early train and at the nearest railroad
station to the town mentioned in the despatch engaged a hackman who
knew the coroner, a local doctor.

The coroner was glad to assist us, though we were careful not to tell
him too much of our own connection with the case. On the way over to
the village undertaker's where the body had been moved, he volunteered
the information that the New York police, whom he had notified
immediately, had already sent a man up there, who had taken a
description of the girl and finger prints, but had not, so far at
least, succeeded in identifying the girl, at any rate on any of the
lists of those reported missing.

"You see," remarked Garrick to me, "that is where the police have us at
a disadvantage. They have organization on their side. A good many
detectives make the mistake of antagonizing the police. But if you want
results, that's fatal."

"Yes," I agreed, "it's impossible, just as it is to antagonize the
newspapers."

"Exactly," returned Garrick. "My idea of the thing, Marshall, is that I
should work with, not against, the regular detectives. They are all
right, in fact indispensable. Half the secret of success nowadays is
efficiency and organization. What I do believe is that organization
plus science is what is necessary."

The local undertaking establishment was rather poorly equipped to take
the place of a morgue and the authorities were making preparations to
move the body to the nearest large city pending the disposal of the
case. Local detectives had set to work, but so far had turned up
nothing, not even the report which we had already received from
McBirney regarding the blood-stained car that resembled Warrington's.

We arrived with the coroner fortunately just before the removal of the
body to the city and by his courtesy were able to see it without any
trouble.

Death, and especially violent death, are at best grewsome subjects, but
when to that are added the sordid surroundings of a country
undertaker's and the fact that the victim is a woman, it all becomes
doubly tragic.

She was a rather flashily dressed girl, but remarkably good looking, in
spite of the rouge and powder which had long since spoiled what might
otherwise have been a clear and fine complexion. The roots of her hair
showed plainly that it had been bleached.

Garrick examined the body closely, and more especially the jagged wound
in the breast. I bent over also. It seemed utterly inexplicable. There
was, he soon discovered, a sort of greasy, oleaginous deposit in the
clotted blood of the huge cavity in the flesh. It interested him, and
he studied it carefully for a long time, without saying a word.

"Some have said she was wounded by some kind of blunt instrument," put
in the coroner. "Others that she was struck by a car. But it's my
opinion that she was killed by a rifle bullet of some kind, although
what could have become of the bullet is beyond me. I've probed for it,
but it isn't there."

Garrick finished his minute examination of the wound without passing
any comment on it of his own.

"Now, if you will be kind enough to take us around to the place where
the body was discovered," he concluded, "I think we shall not trespass
on your time further."

In his own car, the coroner drove us up the road in the direction of
the New York state boundary to the spot where the body had been found.
It was a fine, well-oiled road and I noticed the number and high
quality of the cars which passed us.

When we arrived at the spot where the body of the unfortunate girl had
been discovered, Garrick began a minute search. I do not think for a
moment that he expected to find any weapon, or even the trace of one.
It seemed hopeless also to attempt to pick out any of the footprints.
The earth was soft and even muddy, but so many feet had trodden it down
since the first alarm had been given that it would have been impossible
to extricate one set of footprints from another, much less to tell
whether any of them had been made by the perpetrators of the crime.

Still, there seemed to be something in the mud, just off the side of
the road, that did interest Garrick. Very carefully, so as not to
destroy anything himself which more careless searchers might have left,
he began a minute study of the ground.

Apparently he was rewarded, for, although he said nothing, he took a
hasty glance at the direction of the sun, up-ended the camera he had
brought, and began to photograph the ground itself, or rather some
curious marks on it which I could barely distinguish.

The coroner and I looked on without saying a word. He, at least, I am
sure, thought that Garrick had suddenly taken leave of his senses.

That concluded Garrick's investigation, and, after thanking the
coroner, who had gone out of his way to accommodate us, we started back
to town.

"Well," I remarked, as we settled ourselves for the tedious ride into
the city in the suburban train, "we don't seem to have added much to
the sum of human knowledge by this trip."

"Oh, yes, we have," he returned, almost cheerfully, patting the black
camera which he had folded and slipped into his pocket. "We'll just
preserve the records which I have here. Did you notice what it was that
I photographed?"

"I saw something," I replied, "but I couldn't tell you what it was."

"Well," he explained slowly as I opened my eyes wide in amazement at
the minuteness of his researches, "those were the marks of the tire of
an automobile that had been run up into the bushes from the road. You
know every automobile tire leaves its own distinctive mark, its thumb
print, as it were. When I have developed my films, you will see that
the marks that have been left there are precisely like those left by
the make of tires used on Warrington's car, according to the
advertisement sent out by McBirney. Of course, that mere fact alone
doesn't prove anything. Many cars may use that make of tires. Still, it
is an interesting coincidence, and if the make had been different I
should not feel half so encouraged about going ahead with this clew. We
can't say anything definite, however, until I can compare the actual
marks made by the tires on the stolen car with these marks which I have
photographed and preserved."

If any one other than Garrick had conceived such a notion as the "thumb
print" of an automobile tire, I might possibly have ventured to doubt
it. As it was it gave food enough for thought to last the remainder of
the journey back to town.




CHAPTER IV

THE LIQUID BULLET


On our return to the city, I was not surprised after our conversation
over in New Jersey to find that Garrick had decided on visiting police
headquarters. It was, of course, Commissioner Dillon, one of the
deputies, whom he wanted to see. I had met Dillon myself some time
before in connection with my study of the finger print system, and
consequently needed no second introduction.

In his office on the second floor, the Commissioner greeted us
cordially in his bluff and honest voice which both of us came to know
and like so well later. Garrick had met him often and the cordiality of
their relations was well testified to by Dillon's greeting.

"I thought you'd be here before long," he beamed on Garrick, as he led
us into an inner sanctum. "Did you read in the papers this morning
about that murder of a girl whose body was found up in New Jersey in
the underbrush?"

"Not only that, but I've picked up a few things that your man
overlooked," confided Garrick.

Dillon looked at him sharply for a moment. "Say," he said frankly,
"that's one of the things I like about you, Garrick. You're on the job.
Also, you're on the square. You don't go gumshoeing it around behind a
fellow's back, and talking the same way. You play fair. Now, look here.
Haven't I always played fair with you, Garrick?"

"Yes, Dillon," agreed Garrick, "you have always played fair. But what's
the idea?"

"You came up here for information, didn't you?" persisted the
commissioner.

Garrick nodded.

"Well do you know who that girl was who was murdered?" he asked leaning
forward.

"No," admitted Garrick.

"Of course not," asserted Dillon triumphantly. "We haven't given it out
yet--and I don't know as we shall."

"No," pursued Garrick, "I don't know and I'll admit that I'd like to
know. My position is, as it always has been, that we shouldn't work at
cross purposes. I have drawn my own conclusions on the case and, to put
it bluntly, it seemed to me clear that she was of the demi-monde."

"She was--in a sense," vouchsafed the commissioner. "Now," he added,
leaning forward impressively, "I'm going to tell you something. That
girl--was one of the best stool pigeons we have ever had."

Both Garrick and I were listening intently at, the surprising
revelation of the commissioner. He was pacing up and down, now,
evidently much excited.

"As for me," he continued, "I hate the stool pigeon method as much as
anyone can. I don't like it. I don't relish the idea of being in
partnership with crooks in any degree. I hate an informer who worms
himself or herself into a person's friendship for the purpose of
betraying it. But the system is here. I didn't start it and I can't
change it. As long as it's here I must accept it and do business under
it. And, that being the case, I can't afford to let matters like this
killing pass without getting revenge, swift and sure. You understand?
Someone's going to suffer for the killing of that girl, not only
because it was a brutal murder, but because the department has got to
make an example or no one whom we employ is safe."

Dillon was shouldering his burly form up and down the office in his
excitement. He paused in front of us, to proceed.

"I've got one of my best men on the case now--Inspector Herman. I'll
introduce you to him, if he happens to be around. Herman's all right.
But here you come in, Garrick, and tell me you picked up something that
my man missed up there in Jersey. I know it's the truth, too. I've
worked with you and seen enough of you to know that you wouldn't say a
thing like that as a bluff to me."

Dillon was evidently debating something in his mind.

"Herman'll have to stand it," he went on, half to himself. "I don't
care whether he gets jealous or not."

He paused and looked Garrick squarely in the eye, as he led up to his
proposal. "Garrick," he said slowly, "I'd like to have you take up the
case for us, too. I've heard already that you are working on the
automobile cases. You see, I have ways of getting information myself.
We're not so helpless as your friend McBirney, maybe, thinks."

He faced us and it was almost as if he read our minds.

"For instance," he proceeded, "it may interest you to know that we have
just planned a new method to recover stolen automobiles and apprehend
the thieves. A census of all cars in the questionable garages of the
city has been taken, and each day every policeman is furnished with
descriptions of cars stolen in the past twenty-four hours. The
policeman then is supposed to inspect the garages in his district and
if he finds a machine that shouldn't be there, according to the census,
he sees to it that it isn't removed from the place until it is
identified. The description of this Warrington car has gone out with
extra special orders, and if it's in New York I think we'll find it."

"I think you'll find," remarked Garrick quietly, "that this machine of
Warrington's isn't in the city, at all."

"I hardly think it is, myself," agreed Dillon. "Whoever it was who took
it is probably posted about our new scheme. That's not the point I was
driving at. You see, Garrick, our trails cross in these cases in a
number of ways. Now, I have a little secret fund at my disposal. In so
far as the affair involved the murder of that girl--and I'm convinced
that it does--will you consider that you are working for the city, too?
The whole thing dovetails. You don't have to neglect one client to
serve another. I'll do anything I can to help you with the auto cases.
In fact, you'll do better by both clients by joining the cases."

"Dillon," answered Garrick quickly, "you've always been on the level
with me. I can trust you. Consider that it is a bargain. We'll work
together. Now, who was the girl?"

"Her name was Rena Taylor," replied Dillon, apparently much gratified
at the success of his proposal. "I had her at work getting evidence
against a ladies' poolroom in Forty-seventh Street--an elusive place
that we've never been able to 'get right.'"

Garrick shot a quick glance at me. Evidently we were on the right
trail, anyhow.

"I don't know yet just what happened," continued Dillon, "but I do know
that she had the goods on it. As nearly as I can find out, a stranger
came to the place well introduced, a man, accompanied by a woman. They
got into some of the games. The man seems to have excused himself.
Apparently he found Rena Taylor alone in a room in some part of the
house. No one heard a pistol shot, but then I think they would lie
about that, all right."

Dillon paused. "The strange thing is, however," he resumed, "that we
haven't been able to find in the house a particle of evidence that a
murder or violence of any kind has been done. One fact is established,
though, incontrovertibly. Rena Taylor disappeared from that gambling
house the same night and about the same time that Warrington's car
disappeared. Then we find her dead over in New Jersey."

"And I find reports and traces that the car has been in the vicinity,"
added Garrick.

"You see," beamed Dillon, "that's how we work together. Say you MUST
meet Herman."

He rang a bell and a blue-coated man opened the door. "Call Herman,
Jim," he said, then, as the man disappeared, he went on to us, "I have
given Herman carte-blanche instructions to conduct a thorough
investigation. He has been getting the goods on another swell joint on
the next street, in Forty-eighth, a joint that is just feeding on young
millionaires in this town, and is or will be the cause of more crime
and broken hearts if I don't land it and break it up than any such
place has been for years." The door opened, and Dillon said, "Herman,
shake hands with Mr. Garrick and Mr. Marshall."

The detective was a quiet, gentlemanly sort of fellow who looked rugged
and strong, a fighter to be respected. In fact I would much rather have
had a man like him with us than against us. I knew Garrick's aversion
to the regular detective and was not surprised that he did not
overwhelm Mr. Herman by the cordiality of his greeting. Garrick always
played a lone hand, preferred it and had taken Dillon into his
confidence only because of his official position and authority.

"These gentlemen are going to work independently on that Rena Taylor
case," explained Dillon. "I want you to give Mr. Garrick every
assistance, Herman."

Garrick nodded with a show of cordiality and Herman replied in about
the same spirit. I could not fancy our getting very much assistance
from the regular detective force, with the exception of Dillon. And I
noticed, also, that Garrick was not volunteering any information except
what was necessary in good faith. Already I began to wonder how this
peculiar bargain would turn out.

"Just who and what was Rena Taylor?" asked Garrick finally.

Inspector Herman shot a covert glance at Dillon before replying and the
commissioner hastened to reassure him, "I have told Mr. Garrick that
she was one of our best stool pigeons and had been working on the
gambling cases."

Like all detectives on a case, Herman was averse to parting with any
information, and I felt that it was natural, for if he succeeded in
working it out human nature was not such as to willingly share the
glory.

"Oh," he replied airily, "she was a girl who had knocked about
considerably in the Tenderloin. I don't know just what her story was,
but I suppose there was some fellow who got her to come to New York and
then left her in the lurch. She wasn't a New Yorker. She seems to have
drifted from one thing to another--until finally in order to get money
she came down and offered her services to the police, in this gambling
war."

Herman had answered the question, but when I examined the answer I
found it contained precious little. Perhaps it was indeed all he knew,
for, although Garrick put several other questions to him and he
answered quite readily and with apparent openness, there was very
little more that we learned.

"Yes," concluded Herman, "someone cooked her, all right. They don't
take long to square things with anyone who raps to the 'bulls.'"

"That's right," agreed Garrick. "And the underworld isn't alone in that
feeling. No one likes a 'snitch.'"

"Bet your life," emphasized Herman heartily, then edging toward the
door, he said, "Well, gentlemen, I'm glad to meet you and I'll work
with you. I wish you success, all right. It's a hard case. Why, there
wasn't any trace of a murder or violence in that place in which Rena
Taylor must have been murdered. I suppose you have heard that there
wasn't any bullet found in the body, either?"

"Yes," answered Garrick, "so far it does look inexplicable."

Inspector Herman withdrew. One could see that he had little faith in
these "amateur" detectives.

A telephone message for Dillon about another departmental matter
terminated our interview and we went our several ways.

"Much help I've ever got from a regular detective like Herman,"
remarked Garrick, phrasing my own idea of the matter, as we paid the
fare of our cab a few minutes later and entered his office.

"Yes," I agreed. "Why, he's even stumped at the start by the mystery of
there being no bullet. I'm glad you said nothing about the cartridge,
although I can't see for the life of me what good it is to us."

I had ventured the remark, hoping to entice Garrick into talking. It
worked, at least as far as Garrick wanted to talk yet.

"You'll see about the cartridge soon enough, Tom," he rejoined. "As for
there being no bullet, there was a bullet--only it was of a kind you
never dreamed of before."

He regarded me contemplatively for a moment, then leaned over and in a
voice full of meaning, concluded, "That bullet was composed of
something soft or liquid, probably confined in some kind of thin
capsule. It mushroomed out like a dumdum bullet. It was deadly. But the
chief advantage was that the heat that remained in Rena Taylor's body
melted all evidence of the bullet. That was what caused that greasy,
oleaginous appearance of the wound. The murderer thought he left no
trail in the bullet in the corpse. In other words, it was practically a
liquid bullet."




CHAPTER V

THE BLACKMAILER


It was late in the afternoon, while Garrick was still busy with a
high-powered microscope, making innumerable micro-photographs, when the
door of the office opened softly and a young lady entered.

As she advanced timidly to us, we could see that she was tall and gave
promise of developing with years into a stately woman--a pronounced
brunette, with sparkling black eyes. I had not met her before, yet
somehow I could not escape the feeling that she was familiar to me.

It was not until she spoke that I realized that it was the eyes, not
the face, which I recognized.

"You are Mr. Garrick?" she asked of Guy in a soft, purring voice which,
I felt, masked a woman who would fight to the end for anyone or
anything she really loved.

Then, before Guy could answer, she explained, "I am Miss Violet
Winslow. A friend of mine, Mr. Warrington, has told me that you are
investigating a peculiar case for him--the strange loss of his car."

Garrick hastened to place a chair for her in the least cluttered and
dusty part of the room. There she sat, looking up at him earnestly, a
dainty contrast to the den in which Garrick was working out the capture
of criminals, violent and vicious.

"I have the honor to be able to say, 'Yes' to all that you have asked,
Miss Winslow," he replied. "Is there any way in which I can be of
service to you?"

I thought a smile played over his face at the thought that perhaps she
might have come to ask him to work for three clients instead of two.

At any rate, the girl was very much excited and very much in earnest,
as she opened her handbag and drew from it a letter which she handed to
Garrick.

"I received that letter," she explained, speaking rapidly, "in the noon
mail to-day. I don't know what to make of it. It worries me to get such
a thing. What do you suppose it was sent to me for? Who could have sent
it?"

She was leaning forward artlessly on her crossed knee looking
expectantly up into Garrick's face, oblivious to everything else, even
her own enticing beauty. There was something so simple and sincere
about Violet Winslow that one felt instinctively that nothing was too
great a price to shield her from the sordid and the evil in the world.
Yet something had happened that had brought her already into the office
of a detective.

Garrick had glanced quickly at the outside of the slit envelope. The
postmark showed that it had been mailed early that morning at the
general post office and that there was slight chance of tracing
anything in that direction.

Then he opened it and read. The writing was in a bold scrawl and
hastily executed:

You have heard, no doubt, of the alleged loss of an automobile by Mr.
Mortimer Warrington. I have seen your name mentioned in the society
columns of the newspapers in connection with him several times lately.
Let a disinterested person whom you do not know warn you in time. There
is more back of it than he will care to tell. I can say nothing of the
nefarious uses to which that car has been put, but you will learn more
shortly. Meanwhile, let me inform you that he and some of the wilder of
his set had that night planned a visit to a gambling house on
Forty-eighth Street. I myself saw the car standing before another
gambling den on Forty-seventh Street about the same time. This place, I
may as well inform you, bears an unsavory reputation as a gambling
joint to which young ladies of the fastest character are admitted. If
you will ask someone in whom you have confidence and whom you can ask
to work secretly for you to look up the records, you will find that
much of the property on these two blocks, and these two places in
particular, belongs to the Warrington estate. Need I say more?

The letter was without superscription or date and was signed merely
with the words, "A Well-Wisher." The innuendo of the thing was apparent.

"Of course," she remarked, as Garrick finished reading, and before he
could speak, "I know there is something back of it. Some person is
trying to injure Mortimer. Still---"

She did not finish the sentence. It was evident that the "well-wisher"
need not have said more in order to sow the seeds of doubt.

As I watched her narrowly, I fancied also that from her tone the
newspapers had not been wholly wrong in mentioning their names together
recently.

"I hadn't intended to say anything more than to explain how I got the
letter," she went on wistfully. "I thought that perhaps you might be
interested in it."

She paused and studied the toe of her dainty boot. "And, of course,"
she murmured, "I know that Mr. Warrington isn't dependent for his
income on the rent that comes in from such places. But--but I wish just
the same that it wasn't true. I tried to call him up about the letter,
but he wasn't at the office of the Warrington estate, and no one seemed
to know just where he was."

She kept her eyes downcast as though afraid to betray just what she
felt.

"You will leave this with me?" asked Garrick, still scrutinizing the
letter.

"Certainly," she replied. "That is what I brought it for. I thought it
was only fair that he should know about it."

Garrick regarded her keenly for a moment. "I am sure, Miss Winslow," he
said, "that Mr. Warrington will thank you for your frankness. More than
that, I feel sure that you need have no cause to worry about the
insinuations of this letter. Don't judge harshly until you have heard
his side. There's a good deal of graft and vice talk flying around
loose these days. Miss Winslow, you may depend on me to dig the truth
out and not deceive you."

"Thank you so much," she said, as she rose to go; then, in a burst of
confidence, added, "Of course, after all, I don't care so much about it
myself--but, you know, my aunt--is so dreadfully prim and proper that
she couldn't forgive a thing like this. She'd never let Mr. Warrington
call on me again."

Violet stopped and bit her lip. She had evidently not intended to say
as much as that. But having once said it, she did not seem to wish to
recall the words, either.

"There, now," she smiled, "don't you even hint to him that that was one
of the reasons I called."

Garrick had risen and was standing beside her, looking down earnestly
into her upturned face.

"I think I understand, Miss Winslow," he said in a low voice, rapidly.
"I cannot tell you all--yet. But I can promise you that even if all
were told--the truth, I mean--your faith in Warrington would be
justified." He leaned over. "Trust me," he said simply.

As she placed her small hand in Garrick's, she looked up into his face,
and with suppressed emotion, answered, "Thank you--I--I will."

Then, with a quick gathering of her skirts, she turned and almost fled
from the room.

She had scarcely closed the door before Garrick was telephoning
anxiously all over the city in order to get in touch with Warrington
himself.

"I'm not going to tell him too much about her visit," he remarked, with
a pleased smile at the outcome of the interview, though his face
clouded as his eye fell again on the blackmailing letter, lying before
him. "It might make him think too highly of himself. Besides, I want to
see, too, whether he has told us the whole truth about the affair that
night."

Somehow or other it seemed impossible to find Warrington in any of his
usual haunts, either at his office or at his club.

Garrick had given it up, almost, as a bad job, when, half an hour
later, Warrington himself burst in on us, apparently expecting more
news about his car.

Instead, Garrick handed him the letter.

"Say," he demanded as he ran through it with puckered face, then
slapped it down on the table before Guy, in a high state of excitement,
"what do you make of that?"

He looked from one to the other of us blankly.

"Isn't it bad enough to lose a car without being slandered about it
into the bargain?" he asked heatedly, then adding in disgust, "And to
do it in such an underhand way, writing to a girl like Violet, and
never giving me a chance to square myself. If I could get my hands on
that fellow," he added viciously, "I'd qualify him for the coroner!"

Warrington had flown into a towering and quite justifiable rage.
Garrick, however, ignored his anger as natural under the circumstances,
and was about to ask him a question.

"Just a moment, Garrick," forestalled Warrington. "I know just what you
are going to say. You are going to ask me about those gambling places.
Now, Garrick, I give you my word of honor that I did not know until
to-day that the property in that neighborhood was owned by our estate.
I have been in that joint on Forty-eighth Street--I'll admit that. But,
you know, I'm no gambler. I've gone simply to see the life, and--well,
it has no attraction for me. Racing cars and motorboats don't go with
poker chips and the red and black--not with me. As for the other place,
I don't know any more about it than--than you do," he concluded
vehemently.

Warrington faced Garrick, his steel-blue eye unwavering. "You see, it's
like this," he resumed passionately, "since this vice investigation
began, I have read a lot about landlords. Then, too," he interjected
with a mock wry face, "I knew that Violet's Aunt Emma had been a
crusader or something of the sort. You see, virtue is NOT its own
reward. I don't get credit even for what I intended to do--quite the
contrary."

"How's that?" asked Garrick, respecting the young man's temper.

"Why, it just occurred to me lately to go scouting around the city,
looking at the Warrington holdings, making some personal inquiries as
to the conditions of the leases, the character of the tenants, and the
uses to which they put the properties. The police have compiled a list
of all the questionable places in the city and I have compared it with
the list of our properties. I hadn't come to this one yet. But I shall
call up our agent, make him admit it, and cancel that lease. I'll close
'em up. I'll fight until every---"

"No," interrupted Garrick, quickly, "no--not yet. Don't make any move
yet. I want to find out what the game is. It may be that it is someone
who has tried and failed to get your tenant to come across with graft
money. If we act without finding out first, we might be playing into
the hands of this blackmailer."

Garrick had been holding the letter in his hand, examining it
critically. While he was speaking, he had taken a toothpick and was
running it hastily over the words, carefully studying them. His face
was wrinkled, as if he were in deep thought.

Without saying anything more, Garrick walked over to the windows and
pulled down the dark shades. Then he unrolled a huge white sheet at one
end of the office.

From a corner he drew out what looked like a flat-topped stand, about
the height of his waist, with a curious box-like arrangement on it, in
which was a powerful light. For several minutes, he occupied himself
with the adjustment of this machine, switching the light off and on and
focussing the lenses.

Then he took the letter to Miss Winslow, laid it flat on the machine,
switched on the light and immediately on the sheet appeared a very
enlarged copy of the writing.

"This is what has been called a rayograph by a detective of my
acquaintance," explained Garrick. "In some ways it is much superior to
using a microscope."

He was tracing over the words with a pointer, much as he had already
done with the toothpick.

"Now, you must know," he continued, "or you may not know, but it is a
well-proved fact, that those who suffer from various affections of the
nerves or heart often betray the fact in their handwriting. Of course,
in cases where the disease has progressed very far it may be evident to
the naked eye even in the ordinary handwriting. But, it is there, to
the eye of the expert, even in incipient cases.

"In short," he continued, engrossed in his subject, "what really
happens is that the pen acts as a sort of sphygmograph, registering the
pulsations. I think you can readily see that when the writing is thrown
on a screen, enlarged by the rayograph, the tremors of the pen are
quite apparent."

I studied the writing, following his pointer as it went over the lines
and I began to understand vaguely what he was driving at.

"The writer of that blackmailing letter," continued Garrick, "as I have
discovered both by hastily running over it with a tooth-pick and, more
accurately, by enlarging and studying it with the rayograph, is
suffering from a peculiar conjunction of nervous trouble and disease of
the heart which is latent and has not yet manifested itself, even to
him."

Garrick studied the writing, then added, thoughtfully, "if I knew him,
I might warn him in time."

"A fellow like that needs only the warning of a club or of a good pair
of fists," growled Warrington, impatiently. "How are you going to work
to find him?"

"Well," reasoned Garrick, rolling up the sheet and restoring the room
to its usual condition, "for one thing, the letter makes it pretty
evident that he knows something about the gambling joint, perhaps is
one of the regular habitues of the place. That was why I didn't want
you to take any steps to close up the place immediately. I want to go
there and look it over while it is in operation. Now, you admit that
you have been in the place, don't you?"

"Oh, yes," he replied, "I've been there with Forbes and the other
fellows, but as I told you, I don't go in for that sort of thing."

"Well," persisted Garrick, "you are sufficiently known, any way, to get
in again."

"Certainly. I can get in again. The man at the door will let me in--and
a couple of friends, too, if that's what you mean."

"That is exactly what I mean," returned Garrick. "It's no use to go
early. I want to see the place in full blast, just as the after-theatre
crowd is coming in. Suppose you meet us, Warrington, about half past
ten or so. We can get in. They don't know anything yet about your
intention to cancel the lease and close up the place, although
apparently someone suspects it, or he wouldn't have been so anxious to
get that letter off to Miss Winslow."

"Very well," agreed Warrington, "I will meet you at the north end of
'Crime Square,' as you call it, at that time. Good luck until then."

"Not a bad fellow, at all," commented Garrick when Warrington had
disappeared down the hall from the office. "I believe he means to do
the square thing by every one. It's a shame he has been dragged into a
mess like this, that may affect him in ways that he doesn't suspect.
Oh, well, there is nothing we can do for the present. I'll just add
this clew of the handwriting to the clew of the automobile tires
against the day when we get--pshaw!--he has taken the letter with him.
I suppose it is safe enough in his possession, though. He can't wait
until he has proved to Violet that he is honest. I don't blame him
much. I told you, you know, that the younger set are just crazy over
Violet Winslow."




CHAPTER VI

THE GAMBLING DEN


In spite of the agitation that was going on at the time in the city
against gambling, we had no trouble in being admitted to the place in
Forty-eighth Street. They seemed to recognise Warrington, for no sooner
had the lookout at the door peered through a little grating and seen
him than the light woodwork affair was opened.

To me, with even my slender knowledge of such matters, it had seemed
rather remarkable that only such a door should guard a place that was
so notorious. Once inside, however, the reason was apparent. It didn't.
On the outside there was merely such a door as not to distinguish the
house, a three-story and basement dwelling, of old brownstone, from the
others in the street.

As the outside door shut quickly, we found ourselves in a sort of
vestibule confronted by another door. Between the two the lookout had
his station.

The second door was of the "ice-box" variety, as it was popularly
called at the time, of heavy oak, studded with ax-defying bolts, swung
on delicately balanced and oiled hinges, carefully concealed, about as
impregnable as a door of steel might be.

There were, as we found later, some steel doors inside, leading to the
roof and cellar, though not so thick. The windows were carefully
guarded inside by immense steel bars. The approaches from the back were
covered with a steel network and every staircase was guarded by a
collapsible door. There seemed to be no point of attack that had been
left unguarded.

Yet, unless one had been like ourselves looking for these
fortifications, they would not have appeared much in evidence in the
face of the wealth of artistic furnishings that was lavished on every
hand. Inside the great entrance door was a sort of marble reception
hall, richly furnished, and giving anything but the impression of a
gambling house. As a matter of fact, the first floor was pretty much of
a blind. The gambling was all upstairs.

We turned to a beautiful staircase of carved wood, and ascended.
Everywhere were thick rugs into which the feet sank almost ankle deep.
On the walls were pictures that must have cost a small fortune. The
furniture was of the costliest; there were splendid bronzes and objects
of art on every hand.

Gambling was going on in several rooms that we passed, but the main
room was on the second floor, a large room reconstructed in the old
house, with a lofty ceiling and exquisitely carved trim. Concealed in
huge vases were the lights, a new system, then, which shed its rays in
every direction without seeming to cast a shadow anywhere. The room was
apparently windowless, and yet, though everyone was smoking furiously,
the ventilation must have been perfect.

There was, apparently, a full-fledged poolroom in one part of the
house, closed now, of course, as the races for the day were run. But I
could imagine it doing a fine business in the afternoon. There were
many other games now in progress, games of every description, from
poker to faro, keno, klondike, and roulette. There was nothing of
either high or low degree with which the venturesome might not be
accommodated.

As Warrington conducted us from one room to another, Garrick noted each
carefully. Along the middle of the large room stretched a roulette
table. We stopped to watch it.

"Crooked as it can be," was Garrick's comment after watching it for
five minutes or so.

He had not said it aloud, naturally, for even the crowd in evening
clothes about it, who had lost or would lose, would have resented such
an imputation.

For the most part there was a solemn quiet about the board, broken only
by the rattle of the ball and the click of chips. There was an absence
of the clink of gold pieces that one hears as the croupier rakes them
in at the casinos on the continent. Nor did there seem to be the tense
faces that one might expect. Often there was the glint of an eye, or a
quick and muffled curse, but for the most part everyone, no matter how
great a loser, seemed respectable and prosperous. The tragedies, as we
came to know, were elsewhere.

We sauntered into another room where they were playing keno. Keno was,
we soon found, a development or an outgrowth of lotto, in which cards
were sold to the players, bearing numbers which were covered with
buttons, as in lotto. The game was won when a row was full after
drawing forth the numbers on little balls from a "goose."

"Like the roulette wheel," said Garrick grimly, "the 'goose' is
crooked, and if I had time I could show you how it is done."

We passed by the hazard boards as too complicated for the limited time
at our disposal.

It was, however, the roulette table which seemed to interest Garrick
most, partly for the reason that most of the players flocked about it.

The crowd around the table on the second floor was several deep, now.
Among those who were playing I noticed a new face. It was of a tall,
young man much the worse, apparently, for the supposed good time he had
had already. The game seemed to have sobered him up a bit, for he was
keen as to mind, now, although a trifle shaky as to legs.

He glanced up momentarily from his close following of the play as we
approached.

"Hello, W.," he remarked, as he caught sight of our young companion.

A moment later he had gone back to the game as keen as ever.

"Hello, F.," greeted Warrington. Then, aside to us, he added, "You know
they don't use names now in gambling places if they can help it.
Initials do just as well. That is Forbes, of whom I told you. He's a
young fellow of good family--but I am afraid he is going pretty much to
the bad, or will go, if he doesn't quit soon. I wish I could stop him.
He's a nice chap. I knew him well at college and we have chummed about
a great deal. He's here too much of the time for his own good."

The thing was fascinating, I must admit, no matter what the morals of
it were. I became so engrossed that I did not notice a man standing
opposite us. I was surprised when he edged over towards us slowly, then
whispered to Garrick, "Meet me downstairs in the grill in five minutes,
and have a bite to eat. I have something important to say. Only, be
careful and don't get me 'in Dutch' here."

The man had a sort of familiar look and his slang certainly reminded me
of someone we had met.

"Who was it?" I inquired under my breath, as he disappeared among the
players.

"Didn't you recognize him?" queried Garrick. "Why, that was Herman,
Dillon's man,--the fellow, you know, who is investigating this place."

I had not recognized the detective in evening clothes. Indeed, I felt
that unless he were known here already his disguise was perfect.

Garrick managed to leave Warrington for a time under the pretext that
he wanted him to keep an eye on Forbes while we explored the place
further. We walked leisurely down the handsome staircase into the grill
and luncheon room downstairs.

"Well, have you found out anything?" asked a voice behind us.

We turned. It was Herman who had joined us. Without pausing for an
answer he added, "I suppose you are aware of the character of this
place? It looks fine, but the games are all crooked, and I guess there
are some pretty desperate characters here, from all accounts. I
shouldn't like to fall afoul of any of them, if I were you."

"Oh, no," replied Garrick, "it wouldn't be pleasant. But we came in
well introduced, and I don't believe anyone suspects."

Several others, talking and laughing loudly to cover their chagrin over
losses, perhaps, entered the buffet.

With the gratuitous promise to stand by us in trouble of any kind,
Herman excused himself, and returned to watch the play about the
roulette table.

Garrick and I leisurely finished the little bite of salad we had
ordered, then strolled upstairs again.

The play was becoming more and more furious. Forbes was losing again,
but was sticking to it with a grim determination that was worthy of a
better cause. Warrington had already made one attempt to get him away
but had not succeeded.

"Well," remarked Garrick, as we three made our way slowly to the
coatroom downstairs, "I think we have seen enough of this for to-night.
It isn't so very late, after all. I wonder if it would be possible to
get into that ladies' poolroom on the next street? I should like to see
that place."

"Angus could get us in, if anyone could," replied Warrington
thoughtfully. "Wait here a minute. I'll see if I can get him away from
the wheel long enough."

Five minutes later he came back, with Forbes in tow. He shook hands
with us cordially, in fact a little effusively. Perhaps I might have
liked the young fellow if I could have taken him in hand for a month or
two, and knocked some of the silly ideas he had out of his head.

Forbes called a taxicab, a taxicab apparently being the open sesame.
One might have gone afoot and have looked ever so much like a "good
thing" and he would not have been admitted. But such is the simplicity
of the sophistication of the keepers of such places that a motor car
opens all locks and bolts.

It seemed to be a peculiar place and as nearly as I could make out was
in a house almost in the rear of the one we had just come from.

We were politely admitted by a negro maid, who offered to take our
coats.

"No," answered Forbes, apparently with an eye to getting out as quickly
as possible, "we won't stay long tonight. I just came around to
introduce my friends to Miss Lottie. I must get back right away."

For some reason or other he seemed very anxious to leave us. I surmised
that the gambling fever was running high and that he had hopes of a
change of luck. At any rate, he was gone, and we had obtained
admittance to the ladies' pool room.

We strolled into one of the rooms in which the play was on. The game
was at its height, with huge stacks of chips upon the tables and the
players chatting gayly. There was no large crowd there, however.
Indeed, as we found afterward, it was really in the afternoon that it
was most crowded, for it was rather a poolroom than a gambling joint,
although we gathered from the gossip that some stiff games of bridge
were played there. Both men and women were seated at the poker game
that was in progress before the little green table. The women were
richly attired and looked as if they had come from good families.

We were introduced to several, but as it was evident that they were
passing under assumed names, whatever the proprietor of the place might
know of them, I made little effort to remember the names, although I
did study the faces carefully.

It was not many minutes before we met Miss Lottie, as everyone called
the woman who presided over this feminine realm of chance. Miss Lottie
was a finely gowned woman, past middle age, but remarkably well
preserved, and with a figure that must have occasioned much thought to
fashion along the lines of the present slim styles. There seemed to be
a man who assisted in the conduct of the place, a heavy-set fellow with
a closely curling mustache. But as he kept discreetly in the offing, we
did not see much of him.

Miss Lottie was frankly glad to see us, coming so well introduced, and
outspokenly disappointed that we would not take a seat in the game that
was in progress. However, Garrick passed that over by promising to come
around soon. Excise laws were apparently held in puny respect in this
luxurious atmosphere, and while the hospitable Miss Lottie went to
summon a servant to bring refreshments--at our expense--we had ample
opportunity to glance about at the large room in which we were seated.

Garrick gazed long and curiously at an arc-light enclosed in a soft
glass globe in the center of the ceiling, as though it had suggested an
idea of some sort to him.

Miss Lottie, who had left us for a few moments, returned unexpectedly
to find him still gazing at it.

"We keep that light burning all the time," she remarked, noticing his
gaze. "You see, in the daytime we never use the windows. It is always
just like it is now, night or day. It makes no difference with us. You
know, if we ever should be disturbed by the police," she rattled on,
"this is my house and I am giving a little private party to a number of
my friends."

I had heard of such places but had never seen one before. I knew that
well-dressed women, once having been caught in the toils of gambling,
and perhaps afraid to admit their losses to their husbands, or, often
having been introduced through gambling to far worse evils, were sent
out from these poker rendezvous to the Broadway cafes, there to flirt
with men, and rope them into the game.

I could not help feeling that perhaps some of the richly gowned women
in the house were in reality "cappers" for the game. As I studied the
faces, I wondered what tragedies lay back of these rouged and painted
faces. I saw broken homes, ruined lives, even lost honor written on
them. Surely, I felt, this was a case worth taking up if by any chance
we could put a stop or even set a limitation to this nefarious traffic.

"Have you ever had any trouble?" Garrick asked as we sipped at the
refreshments.

"Very little," replied Miss Lottie, then as if the very manner of our
introduction had stamped us all as "good fellows" to whom she could
afford to be a little confidential in capturing our patronage, she
added nonchalantly, "We had a sort of wild time a couple of nights ago."

"How was that?" asked Garrick in a voice of studied politeness that
carefully concealed the aching curiosity he had for her to talk.

"Well," she answered slowly, "several ladies and gentlemen were here,
playing a little high. They--well, they had a little too much to drink,
I guess. There was one girl, who was the worst of all. She was pretty
far gone. Why, we had to put her out--carry her out to the car that she
had come in with her friend. You know we can't stand for any rough
stuff like that--no sir. This house is perfectly respectable and proper
and our patrons understand it."

The story, or rather, the version of it, seemed to interest Garrick, as
I knew it would.

"Who was the girl?" he asked casually. "Did you know her? Was she one
of your regular patrons?"

"Knew her only by sight," returned Miss Lottie hastily, now a little
vexed, I imagined, at Guy's persistence, "like lots of people who are
introduced here--and come again several times."

The woman was evidently sorry that she had mentioned the incident, and
was trying to turn the conversation to the advantages of her
establishment, not the least of which were her facilities for private
games in little rooms in various parts of the house. It seemed all very
risque to me, although I tried to appear to think it quite the usual
thing, though I was careful to say that hers was the finest of such
places I had ever seen. Still, the memory of Garrick's questioning
seemed to linger. She had not expected, I knew, that we would take any
further interest in her story than to accept it as proof of how careful
she was of her clientele.

Garrick was quick to take the cue. He did not arouse any further
suspicion by pursuing the subject. Apparently he was convinced that it
had been Rena Taylor of whom Miss Lottie spoke. What really happened we
knew no more now than before. Perhaps Miss Lottie herself knew--or she
might not know. Garrick quite evidently was willing to let future
developments in the case show what had really happened. There was
nothing to be gained by forcing things at this stage of the game,
either in the gambling den around the corner or here.

We chatted along for several minutes longer on inconsequential
subjects, treating as important those trivialities which Bohemia
considers important and scoffing at the really good and true things of
life that the demi-monde despises. It was all banality now, for we had
touched upon the real question in our minds and had bounded as lightly
off it as a toy balloon bounds off an opposing surface.

Warrington had kept silent during the visit, I noticed, and seemed
relieved when it was over. I could not imagine that he was known here
inasmuch as they treated him quite as they treated us.

Apparently, though, he had no relish for a possible report of the
excursion to get to Miss Winslow's ears. He was the first to leave, as
Garrick, after paying for our refreshments and making a neat remark or
two about the tasteful way in which the gambling room was furnished,
rescued our hats and coats from the negro servant, and said good-night
with a promise to drop in again.

"What would Mrs. de Lancey think of THAT?" Garrick could not help
saying, as we reached the street.

Warrington gave a nervous little forced laugh, not at all such as he
might have given had Mrs. de Lancey not been the aunt of the girl who
had entered his life.

Then he caught himself and said hastily, "I don't care what she thinks.
It's none of her---"

He cut the words short, as if fearing to be misinterpreted either way.

For several squares he plodded along silently, then, as we had
accomplished the object of the evening, excused himself, with the
request that we keep him fully informed of every incident in the case.

"Warrington doesn't wear his heart on his sleeve," commented Garrick as
we bent our steps to our own, or rather his, apartment, "but it is
evident enough that he is thinking all the time of Violet Winslow."




CHAPTER VII

THE MOTOR BANDIT


Early the next morning, the telephone bell began to ring violently. The
message must have been short, for I could not gather from Garrick's
reply what it was about, although I could tell by the startled look on
his face that something unexpected had happened.

"Hurry and finish dressing, Tom," he called, as he hung up the receiver.

"What's the matter?" I asked, from my room, still struggling with my
tie.

"Warrington was severely injured in a motor-car accident late last
night, or rather early this morning, near Tuxedo."

"Near Tuxedo?" I repeated incredulously. "How could he have got up
there? It was midnight when we left him in New York."

"I know it. Apparently he must have wanted to see Miss Winslow. She is
up there, you know. I suppose that in order to be there this morning,
early, he decided to start after he left us. I thought he seemed
anxious to get away. Besides, you remember he took that letter
yesterday afternoon, and I totally forgot to ask him for it last night.
I'll wager it was on account of that slanderous letter that he wanted
to go, that he wanted to explain it to her as soon as he could."

There had been no details in the hasty message over the wire, except
that Warrington was now at the home of a Doctor Mead, a local physician
in a little town across the border of New York and New Jersey. The more
I thought about it, the more I felt that it was extremely unlikely that
it could have been an accident, after all. Might it not have been the
result of an attack or a trap laid by some strong-arm man who had set
out to get him and had almost succeeded in accomplishing his purpose of
"getting him right," to use the vernacular of the class?

We made the trip by railroad, passing the town where the report had
come to us before of the finding of the body of Rena Taylor. There was,
of course, no one at the station to meet us, and, after wasting some
time in learning the direction, we at last walked to Dr. Mead's
cottage, a quaint home, facing the state road that led from Suffern up
to the Park, and northward.

Dr. Mead, who had telephoned, admitted us himself. We found Warrington
swathed in bandages, and only half conscious. He had been under the
influence of some drug, but, before that, the doctor told us, he had
been unconscious and had only one or two intervals in which he was
sufficiently lucid to talk.

"How did it happen?" asked Garrick, almost as soon as we had entered
the doctor's little office.

"I had had a bad case up the road," replied the doctor slowly, "and it
had kept me out late. I was driving my car along at a cautious pace
homeward, some time near two o'clock, when I came to a point in the
road where there are hills on one side and the river on the other. As I
neared the curve, a rather sharp curve, too, I remember the lights on
my own car were shining on the white fence that edged the river side of
the road. I was keeping carefully on my own side, which was toward the
hill.

"As I was about to turn, I heard the loud purring of an engine coming
in my direction, and a moment later I saw a car with glaring
headlights, driven at a furious pace, coming right at me. It slowed up
a little, and I hugged the hill as close as I could, for I know some of
these reckless young drivers up that way, and this curve was in the
direction where the temptation is for one going north to get on the
wrong side of the road--that is, my side--in order to take advantage of
the natural slope of the macadam in turning the curve at high speed.
Still, this fellow didn't prove so bad, after all. He gave me a wide
berth.

"Just then there came a blinding flash right out of the darkness. Back
of his car a huge, dark object had loomed up almost like a ghost. It
was another car, back of the first one, without a single light,
travelling apparently by the light shed by the forward car. It had
overtaken the first and had cut in between us with not half a foot to
spare on either side. It was the veriest piece of sheer luck I ever saw
that we did not all go down together.

"With the flash I heard what sounded like a bullet zip out of the
darkness. The driver of the forward car stiffened out for a moment.
Then he pitched forward, helpless, over the steering wheel. His car
dashed ahead, straight into the fence instead of taking the curve, and
threw the unconscious driver. Then the car wrecked itself."

"And the car in the rear?" inquired Garrick eagerly.

"Dashed ahead between us safely around the curve--and was gone. I
caught just one glimpse of its driver--a man all huddled up, his collar
up over his neck and chin, his cap pulled forward over his eyes,
goggles covering the rest of his face, and shrouded in what seemed to
be a black coat, absolutely as unrecognizable as if he had been a
phantom bandit, or death itself. He was steering with one hand, and in
the other he held what must have been a revolver."

"And then?" prompted Garrick.

"I had stopped with my heart in my mouth at the narrowness of my own
escape from the rushing black death. Pursuit was impossible. My car was
capable of no such burst of speed as his. And then, too, there was a
groaning man down in the ravine below. I got out, clambered over the
fence, and down in the shrubbery into the pitch darkness.

"Fortunately, the man had been catapulted out before his car turned
over. I found him, and with all the strength I could muster and as
gently as I was able carried him up to the road. When I held him under
the light of my lamps, I saw at once that there was not a moment to
lose. I fixed him in the rear of my car as comfortably as I could and
then began a race to get him home here where I have almost a private
hospital of my own, as quickly as possible."

Cards in his pocket had identified Warrington and Dr. Mead remembered
having heard the name. The prompt attention of the doctor had
undoubtedly saved the young man's life.

Over and over again, Dr. Mead said, in his delirium Warrington had
repeated the name, "Violet--Violet!" It was as Garrick had surmised,
his desire to stand well in her eyes that had prompted the midnight
journey. Yet who the assailant might be, neither Dr. Mead nor the
broken raving of Warrington seemed to afford even the slightest clew.
That he was a desperate character, without doubt in desperate straits
over something, required no great acumen to deduce.

Toward morning in a fleeting moment of lucidity, Warrington had
mentioned Garrick's name in such a way that Dr. Mead had looked it up
in the telephone directory and then at the earliest moment had called
up.

"Exactly the right thing," reassured Garrick. "Can't you think of
anything else that would identify the driver of that other car?"

"Only that he was a wonderful driver, that fellow," pursued the doctor,
admiration getting the better of his horror now that the thing was
over. "I couldn't describe the car, except that it was a big one and
seemed to be of a foreign make. He was crowding Warrington as much as
he dared with safety to himself--and not a light on his own car, too,
remember."

Garrick's face was puckered in thought.

"And the most remarkable thing of all about it," added the doctor,
rising and going over to a white enameled cabinet in the corner of his
office, "was that wound from the pistol."

The doctor paused to emphasize the point he was about to make.
"Apparently it put Warrington out," he resumed. "And yet, after all, I
find that it is only a very superficial flesh wound of the shoulder.
Warrington's condition is really due to the contusions he received
owing to his being thrown from the car. His car wasn't going very fast
at the time, for it had slowed down for me. In one way that was
fortunate--although one might say it was the cause of everything, since
his slowing down gave the car behind a chance to creep up on him the
few feet necessary.

"Really I am sure that even the shock of such a wound wasn't enough to
make an experienced driver like Warrington lose control of the machine.
It is a fairly wide curve, after all, and--well, my contention is
proved by the fact that I examined the wreck of the car this morning
and found that he had had time to shut off the gas and cut out the
engine. He had time to think of and do that before he lost absolute
control of the car."

Dr. Mead had been standing by the cabinet as he talked. Now he opened
it and took from it the bullet which he had probed out of the wound. He
looked at it a minute himself, then handed it to Garrick. I bent over
also and examined it as it lay in Guy's hand.

At first I thought it was an ordinary bullet. But the more I examined
it the more I was convinced that there was something peculiar about it.
In the nose, which was steel-jacketed, were several little round
depressions, just the least fraction of an inch in depth.

"It is no wonder Warrington was put out, even by that superficial
wound," remarked Garrick at last. "His assailant's aim may have been
bad, as it must necessarily have been from one rapidly approaching car
at a person in another rapidly moving car, also. But the motor bandit,
whoever he is, provided against that. That bullet is what is known as
an anesthetic bullet."

"An anesthetic bullet?" repeated both Dr. Mead and myself. "What is
that?"

"A narcotic bullet," Garrick explained, "a sleep-producing bullet, if
you please, a sedative bullet that lulls its victim into almost instant
slumber. It was invented quite recently by a Pittsburgh scientist. The
anesthetic bullet provides the poor marksman with all the advantages of
the expert gunman of unerring aim."

I marvelled at the ingenuity of the man who could figure out how to
overcome the seeming impossibility of accurate shooting from a car
racing at high speed. Surely, he must be a desperate fellow.

While we were talking, the doctor's wife who had been attending
Warrington until a nurse arrived, came to inform him that the effect of
the sedative, which he had administered while Warrington was restless
and groaning, was wearing off. We waited a little while, and then Dr.
Mead himself informed us that we might see our friend for a minute.

Even in his half-drowsy state of pain Warrington appeared to recognise
Garrick and assume that he had come in response to his own summons.
Garrick bent down, and I could just distinguish what Warrington was
trying to say to him.

"Wh--where's Violet?" he whispered huskily, "Does she know? Don't let
her get--frightened--I'll be--all right."

Garrick laid his hand on Warrington's unbandaged shoulder, but said
nothing.

"The--the letter," he murmured ramblingly. "I have it--in my
apartment--in the little safe. I was going to Tuxedo--to see
Violet--explain slander--tell her closing place--didn't know it was
mine before. Good thing to close it--Forbes is a heavy loser. She
doesn't know that."

Warrington lapsed back on his pillow and Dr. Mead beckoned to us to
withdraw without exciting him any further.

"What difference does it make whether she knows about Forbes or not?" I
queried as we tiptoed down the hall.

Garrick shook his head doubtfully. "Can't say," he replied succinctly.
"It may be that Forbes, too, has aspirations."

The idea sent me off into a maze of speculations, but it did not
enlighten me much. At any rate, I felt, Warrington had said enough to
explain his presence in that part of the country. On one thing, as I
have said, Garrick had guessed right. The blackmailing letter and what
we had seen the night before at the crooked gambling joint had been too
much for him. He had not been able to rest as long as he was under a
cloud with Miss Winslow until he had had a chance to set himself right
in her eyes.

There seemed to be nothing that we could do for him just then. He was
in excellent hands, and now that the doctor knew who he was, a trained
nurse had even been sent for from the city and arrived on the train
following our own, thus relieving Mrs. Mead of her faithful care of him.

Garrick gave the nurse strict instructions to make exact notes of
anything that Warrington might say, and then requested the doctor to
take us to the scene of the tragedy. We were about to start, when
Garrick excused himself and hurried back into the house, reappearing in
a few minutes.

"I thought perhaps, after all, it would be best to let Miss Winslow
know of the accident, as long as it isn't likely to turn out seriously
in the end for Warrington," he explained, joining us again in Dr.
Mead's car which was waiting in front of the house. "So I called up her
aunt's at Tuxedo and when Miss Winslow answered the telephone I broke
the news to her as gently as I could. Warrington need have no fear
about that girl," he added.

The wrecked car, we found, had not yet been moved, nor had the broken
fence been repaired. It was, in fact, an accident worth studying
topographically. That part of the road itself near the fence seemed to
interest Garrick greatly. Two or three cars passed while we waited and
he noted how carefully each of them seemed to avoid that side toward
the broken fence, as though it were haunted.

"I hope they've all done that," Garrick remarked, as he continued to
examine the road, which was a trifle damp under the high trees that
shaded it.

As he worked, I could not believe that it was wholly fancy that caused
me to think of him as searching with dilated nostrils, like a
scientific human bloodhound. For, it was not long before I began to
realize what he was looking for in the marks of cars left on the oiled
roadway.

During perhaps half an hour he continued studying the road, above and
below the exact point of the accident. At length a low exclamation from
him brought me to his side. He had dropped down in the grease,
regardless of his knees and was peering at some rather deep imprints in
the surface dressing. There, for a few feet, were plainly the marks of
the outside tires of a car, still unobliterated.

Garrick had pulled out copies of the photographs he had made of the
tire marks that had been left at the scene of the finding of the
unfortunate Rena Taylor's body, and was busy comparing them with the
marks that were before him.

"Of course," Garrick muttered to me, "if the anti-skid marks of the
tires were different, it would have proved nothing, just as in the
other case where we looked for the tire prints. But here, too, a glance
shows that at least it is the same make of tires."

He continued his comparison. It did not take me long to surmise what he
was doing. He was taking the two sets of marks and, inch by inch, going
over them, checking up the little round metal insertions that were
placed in this style of tire to give it a firmer grip.

"Here's one missing, there's another," he cried excitedly. "By Jove, it
can't be mere coincidence. There's one that is worn--another broken.
They correspond. Yes, that MUST be the same car, in each case. And if
it was the stolen car, then it was Warrington's own car that was used
in pursuing him and in almost making away with him!"




CHAPTER VIII

THE EXPLANATION


We had not noticed a car which had stopped just past us and Garrick was
surprised at hearing his own name called.

We looked up from contemplating the discovery he had made in the road,
to see Miss Winslow waving to us. She had motored down from Tuxedo
immediately after receiving the message over the telephone, and with
her keen eye had picked out both the place of the accident and
ourselves studying it.

As we approached, I could see that she was much more pale than usual.
Evidently her anxiety for Warrington was thoroughly genuine. The
slanderous letter had not shaken her faith in him, yet.

She had left her car and was walking back along the road with us toward
the broken fence. Garrick had been talking to her earnestly and now,
having introduced her to Dr. Mead, the doctor and he decided to climb
down to inspect the wrecked car itself in the ravine below.

Miss Winslow cast a quick look from the broken fence down at the torn
and twisted wreckage of the car and gave a suppressed little cry and
shudder.

"How is Mortimer?" she asked of me eagerly, for I had agreed to stay
with her while the others went down the slope. "I mean how is he
really? Is he likely to be better soon, as Mr. Garrick said over the
telephone?" she appealed.

"Surely--absolutely," I assured her, knowing that if Garrick had said
that he had meant it. "Miss Winslow, believe me, neither Mr. Garrick
nor Dr. Mead is concealing anything. It is pretty bad, of course. Such
things are always bad. But it might be far worse. And besides, the
worst now has passed."

Garrick had already promised to accompany her over to Dr. Mead's after
he had made his examination of the wrecked car to confirm what the
doctor had already observed. It took several minutes for them to
satisfy themselves and meanwhile Violet Winslow, already highly
unstrung by the news from Garrick, waited more and more nervously.

In spite of his careful examination of the wrecked car, Garrick found
practically nothing more than Dr. Mead had already told him. It was
with considerable relief that Miss Winslow saw the two again climbing
up the slope in the direction of the road.

A few minutes later we were on our way back, Dr. Mead and Garrick
leading the way in the doctor's car, while I accompanied Miss Winslow
in her own car.

She said little, and it was plain to see that she was consumed by
anxiety. Now and then she would ask a question about the accident, and
although I tried in every way to divert her mind to other subjects she
unfailingly came back to that.

Tempering the details as much as I could I repeated for her just what
had happened to the best of our knowledge.

"And you have no idea who it could have been?" she asked turning those
liquid eyes of hers on my face.

If there were any secret about it, it was perhaps fortunate that I did
not know. I don't think I am more than ordinarily susceptible and I
know I did not delude myself that Miss Winslow ever could be anything
except a friend to either Garrick or myself. But I felt I could not
resist the appeal in those eyes. I wondered if even they, by some magic
intuition, might not pierce the very soul of man and uncover a lying
heart. I felt that Warrington could not have been other than he said he
was and still have been hastening to meet those eyes.

"Miss Winslow," I answered, "I have no more idea than you have who it
could be."

I was telling the truth and I felt that I could meet her gaze.

There must have been something about how I had phrased my answer that
caused her to look at me more searchingly than before. Suddenly she
turned her face away and gazed at the passing landscape from the car.

She said nothing, but as I continued to watch her finely moulded
features, I saw that she was making an effort to control herself. It
flashed over me, somehow, that perhaps, after all, she herself
suspected someone. It was not that she said anything. It was merely an
indefinable impression I received.

Had Warrington any enemies, not in the underworld, but among those of
his own set, rivals, perhaps, who might even stoop to secure the aid of
those of the underworld who could be bought to commit any crime in the
calendar for a price? I did not pause to examine the plausibility or
the impossibility of such a theory. What interested me was whether in
her mind there was such a thought. Had she, perhaps, really more of an
idea than I who it could be? She betrayed nothing of what her intuition
told her, but I felt sure that, even though she knew nothing, there was
at least something she feared.

At last we arrived at Dr. Mead's and I handed her out of the car and
into the tastefully furnished little house. There was an air of
quietness about it that often indefinably pervades a house in which
there is illness or a tragedy.

"May I--see him?" pleaded Miss Winslow, as Dr. Mead placed a chair for
her.

I wondered what he would have done if there had been some good reason
why he should resist the pleading of her deep eyes.

"Why--er--for a minute--yes," he answered. "Later, soon, he may see
visitors longer, but just now I think for a few hours the less he is
disturbed the better."

The doctor excused himself for a moment to look at his patient and
prepare him for the visit. Meanwhile Miss Winslow waited in the
reception room downstairs, still very pale and nervous.

Warrington was in much less pain now than he had been when we left and
Dr. Mead decided that, since the nurse had made him so much more
comfortable, no further drug was necessary. In fact as his natural
vitality due to his athletic habits and clean living asserted itself,
it seemed as if his injuries which at first had looked so serious were
not likely to prove as bad as the doctor had anticipated.

Still, he was badly enough as it was. The new nurse smoothed out his
pillows and deftly tried to conceal as much as she could that would
suggest how badly he was injured and at last Violet Winslow was allowed
to enter the room where the poor boy lay.

Miss Winslow never for a moment let her wonderful self-control fail
her. Quickly and noiselessly, like a ministering angel, she seemed to
float rather than walk over the space from the door to the bed.

As she bent over him and whispered, "Mortimer!" the simple tone seemed
to have an almost magic effect on him.

He opened his eyes which before had been languidly closed and gazed up
at her face as if he saw a vision. Slowly the expression on his face
changed as he realized that it was indeed Violet herself. In spite of
the pain of his hurts which must have been intense a smile played over
his features, as if he realized that it would never do to let her know
how serious had been his condition.

As she bent over her hand had rested on the white covers of the bed.
Feebly, in spite of the bandages that swathed the arm nearest her, he
put out his own brawny hand and rested it on hers. She did not withdraw
it, but passed the other hand gently over his throbbing forehead. Never
have I seen a greater transformation in an invalid than was evident in
Mortimer Warrington. No tonic in all the pharmacopoeia of Dr. Mead
could have worked a more wonderful change.

Not a word was said by either Warrington or Violet for several seconds.
They seemed content just to gaze into each other's faces, oblivious to
us.

Warrington was the first to break the silence, in answer to what he
knew must be her unspoken question.

"Your aunt--gambling," he murmured feebly, trying hard to connect his
words so as to appear not so badly off as he had when he had spoken
before. "I didn't know--till they told me--that the estate owned
it--was coming to tell you--going to cancel the lease--close it up--no
one ever lose money there again--"

The words, jerky though they were, cost him a great physical effort to
say. She seemed to realize it, but there was a look of triumph on her
face as she understood.

She had not been mistaken. Warrington was all that she had thought him
to be.

He was looking eagerly into her face and as he looked he read in it the
answer to the questionings that had sent him off in the early hours of
the morning on his fateful ride to Tuxedo.

Dr. Mead cleared his throat. Miss Winslow recognised it as a signal
that the time was growing short for the interview.

Reluctantly, she withdrew her hand from his, their eyes met another
instant, and with a hasty word of sympathy and encouragement she left
the room, conscious now that other eyes were watching.

"Oh, to think it was to tell me that that he got into it all," she
cried, as she sank into a deep chair in the reception room,
endeavouring not to give way to her feelings, now that the strain was
off and she had no longer to keep a brave face. "I--I feel guilty!"

"I wouldn't say that," soothed Garrick. "Who knows? Perhaps if he had
stayed in the city--they might have succeeded,--whoever it was back of
this thing."

She looked up at Garrick, startled, I thought, with the same expression
I had seen when she turned her face away in the car and I got the
impression that she felt more than she knew of the case.

"I may--see--Mr. Warrington again soon?" she asked, now again mistress
of her feelings after Garrick's interruption that had served to take
her mind off a morbid aspect of the affair.

"Surely," agreed Dr. Mead. "I expect his progress to be rapid after
this."

"Thank you," she murmured, as she slowly rose and prepared to make the
return trip to her aunt's home.

"Oh, Mr. Garrick," she confided, as he helped her on with the wraps she
had thrown carelessly on a chair when she entered, "I can't help it--I
do feel guilty. Perhaps he thinks I am--like Aunt Emma---"

"Perhaps it was quite as much to convince your aunt as you that he took
the trip," suggested Garrick.

Miss Winslow understood. "Why is it," she murmured, "that sometimes
people with the best intentions manage to bring about things that
are--more terrible?"

Garrick smiled. Quite evidently she and her aunt were not exactly in
tune. He said nothing.

As for Dr. Mead he seemed really pleased, for the patient had
brightened up considerably after even the momentary glimpse he had had
of Violet. Altogether I felt that although they had seen each other
only for a moment, it had done both good. Miss Winslow's fears had been
quieted and Warrington had been encouraged by the realisation that, in
spite of its disastrous ending, his journey had accomplished its
purpose anyway.

There was, as Dr. Mead assured us, every prospect now that Warrington
would pull through after the murderous assault that had been made on
him.

We saw Miss Winslow safely off on her return trip, much relieved by the
promise of the doctor that she might call once a day to see how the
patient was getting along.

Warrington was now resting more easily than he had since the accident
and Garrick, having exhausted the possibilities of investigation at the
scene of the accident, announced that he would return to the city.

At the railroad terminus he called up both the apartment and the office
in order to find out whether we had had any visitors during our
absence. No one had called at the apartment, but the office boy
downtown said that there was a man who had called and was coming back
again.

A half hour or so later when we arrived at the office we found McBirney
seated there, patiently determined to find Garrick.

Evidently the news of the assault on Warrington had travelled fast, for
the first thing McBirney wanted to know was how it happened and how his
client was. In a few words Garrick told him as much about it as was
necessary. McBirney listened attentively, but we could see that he was
bursting with his own budget of news.

"And, McBirney," concluded Garrick, without going into the question of
the marks of the tires, "most remarkable of all, I am convinced that
the car in which his assailant rode was no other than the Mercedes that
was stolen from Warrington in the first place."

"Say," exclaimed McBirney in surprise, "that car must be all over at
once!"

"Why--what do you mean?"

"You know I have my own underground sources of information," explained
the detective with pardonable pride at adding even a rumour to the
budget of news. "Of course you can't be certain of such things, but one
of my men, who is scouting around the Tenderloin looking for what he
can find, tells me that he saw a car near that gambling joint on
Forty-eighth Street and that it may have been the repainted and
renumbered Warrington car--at least it tallies with the description
that we got from the garage keeper in north Jersey.

"Did he see who drove it?" asked Garrick eagerly.

"Not very well. It was a short, undersized man, as nearly as he could
make out. Someone whom he did not recognize jumped in it from the
gambling house and they disappeared. Even though my man, his suspicions
aroused, tried to follow them in a taxicab they managed to leave him
behind."

"In what direction did they go?" asked Garrick.

"Toward the West Side--where those fly-by-night garages are all
located."

"Or, perhaps, the Jersey ferries," suggested Garrick.

"Well, I thought you might like to know about this undersized driver,"
said McBirney a little sulkily because Garrick had not displayed as
much enthusiasm as he expected.

"I do," hastened Garrick. "Of course I do. And it may prove to be a
very important clew. But I was just running ahead of your story. The
undersized man couldn't have figured in the case afterward, assuming
that it was the car. He must have left it, probably in the city. Have
you any idea who it could be?"

"Not unless he might be an employee or a keeper of one of those
night-hawk garages," persisted McBirney. "That is possible."

"Quite," agreed Garrick.

McBirney had delivered his own news and in turn had received ours, or
at least such of it as Garrick chose to tell at present. He was
apparently satisfied and rose to go.

"Keep after that undersized fellow, will you?" asked Garrick. "If you
could find out who he is and he should happen to be connected with one
of those garages we might get on the right trail at last."

"I will," promised McBirney. "He's evidently an expert driver of motor
cars himself; my man could see that."

McBirney had gone. Garrick sat for several minutes gazing squarely at
me. Then he leaned back in his chair, with his hands behind his head.

"Mark my words, Marshall," he observed slowly, "someone connected with
that gambling joint in some way has got wind of the fact that
Warrington is going to revoke the lease and close it up. We've got to
beat them to it--that's all."




CHAPTER IX

THE RAID


Garrick was evidently turning over and over in his mind some plan of
action.

"This thing has gone just about far enough," he remarked meditatively,
looking at his watch. It was now well along in the afternoon.

"But what do you intend doing?" I asked, regarding the whole affair so
far as a hopeless mystery from which I could not see that we had
extracted so much as a promising clew.

"Doing?" he echoed. "Why, there is only one thing to do, and that is to
take the bull by the horns, to play the game without any further
attempt at finessing. I shall see Dillon, get a warrant, and raid that
gambling place--that's all."

I had no counter suggestion to offer. In fact the plan rather appealed
to me. If any blow were to be struck it must be just a little bit ahead
of any that the gamblers anticipated, and this was a blow they would
not expect if they already had wind of Warrington's intention to cancel
the lease.

Garrick called up Dillon and made an appointment to meet him early in
the evening, without telling him what was afoot.

"Meet me down at police headquarters, Tom," was all that Garrick said
to me. "I want to work here at the office for a little while, first,
testing a new contrivance, or, rather, an old one that I think may be
put to a new use."

Meanwhile I decided to employ my time by visiting some newspaper
friends that I had known a long time on the Star, one of the most
enterprising papers in the city. Fortunately I found my friend,
Davenport, the managing editor, at his desk and ready to talk in the
infrequent lulls that came in his work.

"What's on your mind, Marshall?" he asked as I sat down and began to
wonder how he ever conducted his work in the chaotic clutter of stuff
on the top of his desk.

"I can't tell you--yet, Davenport," I explained carefully, "but it's a
big story and when it breaks I'll promise that the Star has the first
chance at it. I'm on the inside--working with that young detective,
Garrick, you know."

"Garrick--Garrick," he repeated. "Oh, yes, that fellow who came back
from abroad with a lot of queer ideas. I remember. We had an interview
with him when he left the steamer. Good stuff, too,--but what do you
think of him? Is he--on the level?"

"On the level and making good," I answered confidently. "I'm not at
liberty to tell much about it now, but--well, the reason I came in was
to find out what you could tell me about a Miss Winslow,--Violet
Winslow and her aunt, Mrs. Beekman de Lancey."

"The Miss Winslow who is reported engaged to young Warrington?" he
repeated. "The gossip is that he has cut out Angus Forbes, entirely."

I had hesitated to mention all the names at once, but I need not have
done so, for on such things, particularly the fortunes in finance and
love of such a person as Warrington, the eyes of the press were
all-seeing.

"Yes," I answered carefully, "that's the Miss Winslow. What do you know
of her?"

"Well," he replied, fumbling among the papers on his desk, "all I know
is that in the social set to which she belongs our society reporters
say that of all the young fellows who have set out to capture her--and
she's a deuced pretty girl, even in the pictures we have published--it
seems to have come down to Mortimer Warrington and Angus Forbes. Of
course, as far as we newspapermen are concerned, the big story for us
would be in the engagement of young Warrington. The eyes of people are
fixed on him just now--the richest young man in the country, and all
that sort of thing, you know. Seems to be a pretty decent sort of
fellow, too, I believe--democratic and keen on other things besides
tango and tennis. Oh, there's the thing I was hunting for. Mrs. de
Lancey's a nut on gambling, I believe. Read that. It's a letter that
came to us from her this morning."

It was written in the stilted handwriting of a generation ago and read:

"To the Editor of the Star, Dear Sir:--I believe that your paper prides
itself on standing for reform and against the grafters. If that is so,
why do you not join in the crusade to suppress gambling in New York?
For the love that you must still bear towards your own mother, listen
to the stories of other mothers torn by anxiety for their sons and
daughters, and if there is any justice or righteousness in this great
city close up those gambling hells that are sending to ruin scores of
our finest young men--and women. You have taken up other fights against
gambling and vice. Take up this one that appeals to women of wealth and
social position. I know them and they are as human as mothers in any
other station in life. Oh, if there is any way, close up these gilded
society resorts that are dissipating the fortunes of many parents,
ruining young men and women, and, in one case I know of, slowly
bringing to the grave a grey-haired widow as worthy of protection as
any mother of the poor whose plea has closed up a little poolroom or
policy shop. One place I have in mind is at ---- West Forty-eighth
Street. Investigate it, but keep this confidential.

"Sincerely,

"(MRS.) EMMA DE LANCEY."

"Do you know anything about it?" I asked casually handing the letter
back.

"Only by hearsay. I understand it is the crookedest gambling joint in
the city, at least judging by the stories they tell of the losses
there. And so beastly aristocratic, too. They tell me young Forbes has
lost a small fortune there--but I don't know how true it is. We get
hundreds of these daintily perfumed and monogramed little missives in
the course of a year."

"You mean Angus Forbes?" I asked.

"Yes," replied the managing editor, "the fellow that they say has been
trying to capture your friend Miss Winslow."

I did not reply for the moment. Forbes, I had already learned, was
deeply in debt. Was it part of his plan to get control of the little
fortune of Violet to recoup his losses?

"Do you know Mrs. de Lancey?" pursued the editor.

"No--not yet," I answered. "I was just wondering what sort of person
she is."

"Oh I suppose she's all right," he answered, "but they say she's pretty
straight-laced--that cards and all sorts of dissipation are an
obsession with her."

"Well," I argued, "there might be worse things than that."

"That's right," he agreed. "But I don't believe that such a puritanical
atmosphere is--er--just the place to bring up a young woman like Violet
Winslow."

I said nothing. It did not seem to me that Mrs. de Lancey had succeeded
in killing the natural human impulses in Violet, though perhaps the
girl was not as well versed in some of the ways of the world as others
of her set. Still, I felt that her own natural common sense would
protect her, even though she had been kept from a knowledge of much
that in others of her set was part of their "education."

My friend's telephone had been tinkling constantly during the
conversation and I saw that as the time advanced he was getting more
and more busy. I thanked Davenport and excused myself.

At least I had learned something about those who were concerned in the
case. As I rode uptown I could not help thinking of Violet Winslow and
her apparently intuitive fear concerning Warrington. I wondered how
much she really knew about Angus Forbes. Undoubtedly he had not
hesitated to express his own feelings toward her. Had she penetrated
beneath the honeyed words he must have spoken to her? Was it that she
feared that all things are fair in war and love and that the favour she
must have bestowed on Warrington might have roused the jealousy of some
of his rivals for her affections?

I found no answer to my speculations, but a glance at my watch told me
that it was nearing the time of my appointment with Guy.

A few minutes later I jumped off the car at Headquarters and met
Garrick, waiting for me in the lower hall. As we ascended the broad
staircase to the second floor, where Dillon's office was, I told him
briefly of what I had discovered.

"The old lady will have her wish," he replied grimly as I related the
incident of the letter to the editor. "I wonder just how much she
really does know of that place. I hope it isn't enough to set her
against Warrington. You know people like that are often likely to
conceive violent prejudices--and then refuse to believe something
that's all but proved about someone else."

There was no time to pursue the subject further for we had reached
Dillon's office and were admitted immediately.

"What's the news?" asked Dillon greeting us cordially.

"Plenty of it," returned Garrick, hastily sketching over what had
transpired since we had seen him last.

Garrick had scarcely begun to outline what he intended to do when I
could see from the commissioner's face that he was very sceptical of
success.

"Herman tells me," he objected, "that the place is mighty well
barricaded. We haven't tried raiding it yet, because you know the new
plan is not only to raid those places, but first to watch them, trace
out some of the regular habitues, and then to be able to rope them in
in case we need them as evidence. Herman has been getting that all in
shape so that when the case comes to trial, there'll be no slip-up."

"If that's all you want, I can put my finger on some of the wildest
scions of wealth that you will ever need for witnesses," Garrick
replied confidently.

"Well," pursued Dillon diffidently, "how are you going to pull it off,
down through the sky-light, or up through the cellar?"

"Oh, Dillon," returned Garrick reproachfully, "that's unworthy of you."

"But, Garrick," persisted Dillon, "don't you know that it is a
veritable National City Bank for protection. It isn't one of those
common gambling joints. It's proof against all the old methods. Axes
and sledgehammers would make no impression there. Why, that place has
been proved bomb-proof--bomb-proof, sir. You remember recently the
so-call 'gamblers' war' in which some rivals exploded a bomb on the
steps because the proprietor of this place resented their intrusion
uptown from the lower East Side, with their gunmen and lobbygows? It
did more damage to the house next door than to the gambling joint."

Dillon paused a moment to enumerate the difficulties. "You can get past
the outside door all right. But inside is the famous ice-box door. It's
no use to try it at all unless you can pass that door with reasonable
quickness. All the evidence you will get will be of an innocent social
club room downstairs. And you can't get on the other side of that door
by strategy, either. It is strategy-proof. The system of lookouts is
perfect. Herman---"

"Can't help it," interrupted Garrick, "we've got to go over Herman's
head this time. I'll guarantee you all the evidence you'll ever need."

Dillon and Garrick faced each other for a moment.

It was a supreme test of Dillon's sincerity.

Finally he spoke slowly. "All right," he said, as if at last the die
were cast and Garrick had carried his point, "but how are you going to
do it? Won't you need some men with axes and crowbars?"

"No, indeed," almost shouted Garrick as Dillon made a motion as if to
find out who were available. "I've been preparing a little surprise in
my office this afternoon for just such a case. It's a rather cumbersome
arrangement and I've brought it along stowed away in a taxicab outside.
I don't want anyone else to know about the raid until the last moment.
Just before we begin the rough stuff, you can call up and have the
reserves started around. That is all I shall want."

"Very well," agreed Dillon, after a moment.

He did not seem to relish the scheme, but he had promised at the outset
to play fair and he had no disposition to go back on his word now in
favor even of his judgment.

"First of all," he planned, "we'll have to drop in on a judge and get a
warrant to protect us."

Garrick hastily gave me instructions what to do and I started uptown
immediately, while they went to secure the secret warrant.

I had been stationed on the corner which was not far from the
Forty-eighth Street gambling joint that we were to raid. I had a keen
sense of wickedness as I stood there with other loiterers watching the
passing throng under the yellow flare of the flaming arc light.

It was not difficult now to loiter about unnoticed because the streets
were full of people, all bent on their own pleasure and not likely to
notice one person more or less who stopped to watch the passing throng.

From time to time I cast a quick glance at the house down the street,
in order to note who was going in.

It must have been over an hour that I waited. It was after ten, and it
became more difficult to watch who was going into the gambling joint.
In fact, several times the street was so blocked that I could not see
very well. But I did happen to catch a glimpse of one familiar figure
across the street from me.

It was Angus Forbes. Where he kept himself in the daytime I did not
know, but he seemed to emerge at night, like a rat, seeking what to him
was now food and drink. I watched him narrowly as he turned the corner,
but there was no use in being too inquisitive. He was bound as
certainly for the gambling joint as a moth would have headed toward one
of the arc lights. Evidently Forbes was making a vocation of gambling.

Just then a taxicab pulled up hurriedly at the curb near where I was
standing and a hand beckoned me, on the side away from the gambling
house.

I sauntered over and looked in through the open window. It was Garrick
with Dillon sunk back into the dark corner of the cab, so as not to be
seen.

"Jump in!" whispered Garrick, opening the door. "We have the warrant
all right. Has anything happened? No suspicion yet?"

I did so and reassured Garrick while the cab started on a blind cruise
around the block.

On the floor was a curiously heavy instrument, on which I had stubbed
my toe as I entered. I surmised that it must have been the thing which
Garrick had brought from his office, but in the darkness I could not
see what it was, nor was there a chance to ask a question.

"Stop here," ordered Garrick, as we passed a drug store with a
telephone booth.

Dillon jumped out and disappeared into the booth.

"He is calling the reserves from the nearest station," fretted Garrick.
"Of course, we have to do that to cover the place, but we'll have to
work quickly now, for I don't know how fast a tip may travel in this
subterranean region. Here, I'll pay the taxi charges now and save some
time."

A moment later Dillon rejoined us, his face perspiring from the
closeness of the air in the booth.

"Now to that place on Forty-eighth Street, and we're square," ordered
Garrick to the driver, mentioning the address. "Quick!"

There had been, we could see, no chance for a tip to be given that a
raid was about to be pulled off. We could see that, as Garrick and I
jumped out of the cab and mounted the steps.

The door was closed to us, however. Only someone like Warrington who
was known there could have got us in peacefully, until we had become
known in the place. Yet though there had been no tip, the lookout on
the other side of the door, with his keen nose, had seemed to scent
trouble.

He had retreated and, we knew, had shut the inside, heavy door--perhaps
even had had time already to give the alarm inside.

The sharp rap of a small axe which Garrick had brought sounded on the
flimsy outside door, in quick staccato. There was a noise and scurry of
feet inside and we could hear the locks and bolts being drawn.

Banging, ripping, tearing, the thin outer door was easily forced.
Disregarding the melee I leaped through the wreckage with Garrick. The
"ice-box" door barred all further progress. How was Garrick to surmount
this last and most formidable barrier?

"A raid! A raid!" cried a passer-by.

Another instant, and the cry, taken up by others, brought a crowd
swarming around from Broadway, as if it were noon instead of midnight.




CHAPTER X

THE GAMBLING DEBT


There was no time to be lost now. Down the steps again dashed Garrick,
after our expected failure both to get in peaceably and to pass the
ice-box door by force. This time Dillon emerged from the cab with him.
Together they were carrying the heavy apparatus up the steps.

They set it down close to the door and I scrutinized it carefully. It
looked, at first sight, like a short stubby piece of iron, about
eighteen inches high. It must have weighed fifty or sixty pounds. Along
one side was a handle, and on the opposite side an adjustable hook with
a sharp, wide prong.

Garrick bent down and managed to wedge the hook into the little space
between the sill and the bottom of the ice-box door. Then he began
pumping on the handle, up and down, up and down, as hard as he could.

Meanwhile the crowd that had begun to collect was getting larger.
Dillon went through the form of calling on them for aid, but the call
was met with laughter. A Tenderloin crowd has no use for raids, except
as a spectacle. Between us we held them back, while Garrick worked. The
crowd jeered.

It was the work of only a few seconds, however, before Garrick changed
the jeers to a hearty round of exclamations of surprise. The door
seemed to be lifted up, literally, until some of its bolts and hinges
actually bulged and cracked. It was being crushed, like the flimsy
outside door, before the unwonted attack.

Upwards, by fractions of an inch, by millimeters, the door was being
forced. There was such straining and stress of materials that I really
began to wonder whether the building itself would stand it.

"Scientific jimmying," gasped Garrick, as the door bulged more and more
and seemed almost to threaten to topple in at any moment.

I looked at the stubby little cylinder with its short stump of a lever.
Garrick had taken it out now and had wedged it horizontally between the
ice-box door and the outer stonework of the building itself. Then he
jammed some pieces of wood in to wedge it tighter and again began to
pump at the handle vigorously.

"What is it?" I asked, almost in awe at the titanic power of the
apparently insignificant little thing.

"My scientific sledgehammer," he panted, still working the lever more
vigorously than ever backward and forward. "In other words, a hydraulic
ram. There is no swinging of axes or wielding of crow-bars necessary
any more, Dillon, in breaking down a door like this. Such things are
obsolete. This little jimmy, if you want to call it that, has a power
of ten tons. I think that's about enough."

It seemed as if the door were buckling and being literally wrenched off
its hinges by the irresistible ten-ton punch of the hydraulic ram.

Garrick sprang back, grasping me by the arm and pulling me too. But
there was no need of caution. What was left of the door swung back on
its loosened hinges, seemed to tremble a moment, and then, with a dull
thud crashed down on the beautiful green marble of the reception hall,
reverberating.

We peered beyond. Inside all was darkness. At the very first sign of
trouble the lights had been switched out downstairs. It was deserted.
There was no answer to our shouts. It was as silent as a tomb.

The clang of bells woke the rapid echoes. The crowd parted. It was the
patrol wagons, come just in time, full of reserves, at Dillon's order.
They swarmed up the steps, for there was nothing to do now, in the
limelight of the public eye, except their duty. Besides Dillon was
there, too.

"Here," he ordered huskily, "four of you fellows jump into each of the
next door houses and run up to the roof. Four more men go through to
the rear of this house. The rest stay here and await orders," he
directed, detailing them off quickly, as he endeavoured to grasp the
strange situation.

On both sides of the street heads were out of windows. On other houses
the steps were full of spectators. Thousands of people must have
swarmed in the street. It was pandemonium.

Yet inside the house into which we had just broken it was all darkness
and silence.

The door had yielded to the scientific sledge-hammering where it would
have shattered, otherwise, all the axes in the department. What was
next?

Garrick jumped briskly over the wreckage into the building. Instead of
the lights and gayety which we had seen on the previous night, all was
black mystery. The robbers' cave yawned before us. I think we were all
prepared for some sort of gunplay, for we knew the crooks to be
desperate characters. As we followed Garrick closely we were surprised
to encounter not even physical force.

Someone struck a light. Garrick, groping about in the shadows, found
the switch, and one after another the lights in the various rooms
winked up.

I have seldom seen such confusion as greeted us as, with Dillon waiving
his "John Doe" warrant over his head, we hurried upstairs to the main
hall on the second floor, where the greater part of the gambling was
done. Furniture was overturned and broken, and there had been no time
to remove the heavier gambling apparatus. Playing cards, however,
chips, racing sheets from the afternoon, dice, everything portable and
tangible and small enough to be carried had disappeared.

But the greatest surprise of all was in store. Though we had seen no
one leave by any of the doors, nor by the doors of any of the houses on
the block, nor by the roofs, or even by the back yard, according to the
report of the police who had been sent in that direction, there was not
a living soul in the house from roof to cellar. Search as we did, we
could find not one of the scores of people whom I had seen enter in the
course of the evening while I was watching on the corner.

Dillon, ever mindful of some of the absurd rules of evidence in such
cases laid down by the courts, had had an official photographer
summoned and he was proceeding from room to room, snapping pictures of
apparatus that was left in place and preserving a film record of the
condition of things generally.

Garrick was standing ruefully beside the roulette wheel at which so
many fortunes had been dissipated.

"Get me an axe," he asked of one of Dillon's men who was passing.

With a well-directed blow he smashed the wheel.

"Look," he exclaimed, "this is what they were up against."

His forefinger indicated an ingenious but now twisted and tangled
series of minute wires and electro-magnets in the delicate mechanism
now broken open before us. Delicate brushes led the current into the
wheel.

With another blow of the axe, Garrick disclosed wires running down
through the leg of the table to the floor and under the carpet to
buttons operated by the man who ran the game.

"What does it mean?" I asked blankly.

"It means," he returned, "that they had little enough chance to win at
a straight game of roulette. But this wheel wasn't even straight with
all the odds in favor of the bank, as they are naturally. This game was
electrically controlled. Others are mechanically controlled by what are
called the 'mule's ear,' and other devices. You CAN'T win. These wires
and magnets can be made to attract the little ball into any pocket the
operator desires. Each one of the pockets contains an electro-magnet.
One set of electro-magnets in the red pockets is connected with one
button under the carpet and a set of batteries. The other series of
little magnets in the black pockets is connected with another button
and the batteries."

He had picked up the little ball. "This ball," he said as he examined
it, "is not really of ivory, but of a composition that looks like
ivory, coating a hollow, soft-iron ball inside. Soft iron is attracted
by an electro-magnet. Whichever set of magnets is energized attracts
the ball and by this simple method it is in the power of the operator
to let the ball go to red or black as he may wish. Other similar
arrangements control the odd or even, and other combinations, also from
push buttons. There isn't an honest gambling machine in the whole
place. The whole thing is crooked from start to finish,--the men, the
machines,----"

"Then a fellow never had a chance?" repeated Dillon.

"Not a chance," emphasized Garrick.

We gathered about and gazed at magnets and wires, the buttons and
switches. He did not need to say anything more to expose the character
of the place.

Amazing as we found everything about us in the palace of crooks,
nothing made so deep an impression on me as the fact that it was
deserted. It seemed as if the gamblers had disappeared as though in a
fairy tale. Search room after room as Dillon's men did they were unable
to find a living thing.

One of the men had discovered, back of the gambling rooms on the second
floor, a little office evidently used by those who ran the joint. It
was scantily furnished, as though its purpose might have been merely a
place where they could divide up the profits in private. A desk, a
cabinet and a safe, besides a couple of chairs, were all that the room
contained.

Someone, however, had done some quick work in the little office during
those minutes while Garrick was opening the great ice-box door with his
hydraulic ram, for on every side were scattered papers, the desk had
been rifled, and even from the safe practically everything of any value
had been removed. It was all part of the general scheme of things in
the gambling joint. Practically nothing that was evidential that could
be readily removed had been left. Whoever had planned the place must
have been a genius as far as laying out precautions against a raid were
concerned.

Garrick, Dillon and I ran hastily through some scattered correspondence
and other documents that spilled out from some letter files on the
floor, but as far as I could make out there was nothing of any great
importance that had been overlooked.

Dillon ordered the whole mass to be bundled up and taken off when the
other paraphernalia was removed so that it could be gone through at our
leisure, and the search continued.

From the "office" a staircase led down by a back way and we followed
it, looking carefully to see where it led.

A low exclamation from Garrick arrested our attention. In a curve
between landings he had kicked something and had bent down to pick it
up. An electric pocket flashlight which one of the men had picked up
disclosed under its rays a package of papers evidently dropped by
someone who was carrying away in haste an armful of stuff.

"Markers with the house," exclaimed Garrick as he ran over the contents
of the package hurriedly. "I. O. U.'s for various amounts and all
initialed--for several hundred thousands. Hello, here's a bunch with an
'F.' That must mean Forbes--thousands of dollars worth."

The markers were fastened together with a slip in order to separate
them from the others, evidently.

Garrick was hastily totalling them up and they seemed to amount to a
tidy sum.

"How can he ever pay?" I asked, amazed as the sum crept on upward in
the direction of six figures.

"Don't you see that they're cancelled?" interjected Garrick, still
adding.

I had not examined them closely, but as I now bent over to do so I saw
that each bore the words, "Paid by W."

Warrington himself had settled the gambling debts of his friend!

In still greater amazement I continued to look and found that they all
bore dates from several weeks before, down to within a few days. The
tale they told was eloquent. Forbes, his own fortune gone, had gambled
until rescued by his friend. Even that had not been sufficient to curb
his mania. He had kept right on, hoping insanely to recoup. And the
gamblers had been willing to take a chance with him, knowing that they
already had so much of his money that they could not possibly lose.

A horrid thought flashed over me. What if he had really planned to pay
his losses by marrying a girl with a fortune? Forbes was the sort who
would have gambled on even that slender prospect.

As we stood on the landing while Garrick went over the markers, I found
myself wondering, even, where Forbes had been that night after he
hurried away from us at the ladies' poolroom and Warrington had taken
the journey that had ended so disastrously for him. The more I learned
of what had been taking place, the more I saw that Warrington stood out
as a gentleman. Undoubtedly Violet Winslow had heard, had been informed
by some kind unknown of the slight lapses of Warrington. I felt sure
that the gross delinquencies of Forbes were concealed from her and from
her aunt, at least as far as Warrington had it in his power to shield
the man who was his friend--and rival.

The voice of Dillon recalled me from a train of pure speculation to the
more practical work in hand before us.

"Well, at any rate, we've got evidence enough to protect ourselves and
close the place, even if we didn't make any captures," congratulated
Dillon, as he rejoined us, after a momentary excursion from which he
returned still blinking from the effects of the flashlight powders
which his photographer had been using freely. "After we get all the
pictures of the place, I'll have the stuff here removed to
headquarters--and it won't be handed back on any order of the courts,
either, if I can help it!"

Garrick had shoved the markers into his pocket and now was leading the
way downstairs.

"Still, Dillon," he remarked, as we followed, "that doesn't shed any
light on the one remaining problem. How did they all manage to get out
so quickly?"

We had reached the basement which contained the kitchens for the buffet
and quarters for the servants. A hasty excursion into the littered back
yard under the guidance of Dillon's men who had been sent around that
way netted us nothing in the way of information. They had not made
their escape over the back fences. Such a number of people would
certainly have left some trail, and there was none.

We looked at Garrick, perplexed, and he remarked, with sudden energy,
"Let's take a look at the cellar."

As we groped down the final stairway into the cellar, it was only too
evident that at last he had guessed right. Down in the subterranean
depths we quickly discovered, at the rear, a sheet-iron door. Battering
it down was the work of but a moment for the little ram. Beyond it,
where we expected to see a yawning tunnel, we found nothing but a pile
of bricks and earth and timbers that had been used for shoring.

There had been a tunnel, but the last man who had gone through had
evidently exploded a small dynamite cartridge, and the walls had been
caved in. It was impossible to follow it until its course could be
carefully excavated with proper tools in the daylight.

We had captured the stronghold of gambling in New York, but the
gamblers had managed to slip out of our grasp, at least for the present.




CHAPTER XI

THE GANGSTER'S GARAGE


"I have it," exclaimed Garrick, as we were retracing our steps upstairs
from the dank darkness of the cellar. "I would be willing to wager that
that tunnel runs back from this house to that pool-room for women which
we visited on Forty-seventh Street, Marshall. That must be the secret
exit. Don't you see, it could be used in either direction."

We climbed the stairs and stood again in the wreck of things, taking a
hasty inventory of what was left, in hope of uncovering some new clew,
even by chance.

Garrick shook his head mournfully.

"They had just time enough," he remarked, "to destroy about everything
they wanted to and carry off the rest."

"All except the markers," I corrected.

"That was just a lucky chance," he returned. "Still, it throws an
interesting sidelight on the case."

"It doesn't add much in my estimation to the character of Forbes," I
ventured, voicing my own suspicions.

The telephone bell rang before Garrick had a chance to reply. Evidently
in their haste they had not had time to cut the wires or to spread the
news, yet, of the raid. Someone who knew nothing of what had happened
was calling up.

Garrick quickly unhooked the receiver, with a hasty motion to us to
remain silent.

"Hello," we heard him answer. "Yes, this is it. Who is this?"

He had disguised his voice. We waited anxiously and watched his face to
gather what response he received.

"The deuce!" he exclaimed, with his hand over the transmitter so that
his voice would not be heard at the other end.

"What's the matter?" I asked eagerly.

"Whoever he was," replied Garrick, "he was too keen for me. He caught
on. There must have been some password or form that they used which we
don't know, for he hung up the receiver almost as soon as he heard me."

Garrick waited a minute or two. Then he whistled into, the transmitter.
It was done apparently to see whether there was anyone listening. But
there was no answer. The man was gone.

"Operator, operator!" Guy was calling, insistently moving the hook up
and down rapidly. "Yes--I want Central. Central, can you tell me what
number that was which just called up?"

We all waited anxiously to learn whether the girl could find out or not.

"Bleecker seven--one--eight--o? Thank you very much. Give me
information, please."

Again we waited as Garrick tried to trace the call out.

"Hello! What is the street address of Bleecker seven--one--eight--o?
Three hundred West Sixth. Thank you. A garage? Good-bye."

"A garage?" echoed Dillon, his ears almost going up as he realized the
importance of the news.

"Yes," cried Garrick, himself excited. "Tom, call a cab. Let us hustle
down there as quickly as we can."

"One of those garages on the lower West Side," I heard Dillon say as I
left. "Perhaps they did work for the gambling joint--sent drunks home,
got rid of tough customers and all that. You know already that there
are some pretty tough places down there. This is bully. I shouldn't be
surprised if it gave us a line on the stealing of Warrington's car at
last."

I found a cab and Dillon and Garrick joined me in it.

"I tried to get McBirney," said Garrick as we prepared to start on our
new quest, "but he was out, and the night operator at his place didn't
seem to know where he was. But if they can locate him, I imagine he'll
be around at least shortly after we get there. I left the address."

Dillon had issued his final orders to his raiders about guarding the
raided gambling joint and stationing a man at the door. A moment later
we were off, threading our way through the crowd which in spite of the
late hour still lingered to gape at the place.

On the way down we speculated much on the possibility that we might be
going on a wild goose chase. But the very circumstances of the call and
the promptness with which the man who had called had seemed to sense
when something was wrong and to ring off seemed to point to the fact
that we had uncovered a good lead of some kind.

After a quick run downtown through the deserted avenues, we entered a
series of narrow and sinuous streets that wound through some pretty
tough looking neighborhoods. On the street corners were saloons that
deserved no better name than common groggeries. They were all vicious
looking joints and uniformly seemed to violate the law about closing.
The fact was that they impressed one as though it would be as much as
one's life was worth even to enter them with respectable looking
clothes on.

The further we proceeded into the tortuous twists of streets that stamp
the old Greenwich village with a character all its own, the worse it
seemed to get. Decrepit relics of every style of architecture from
almost the earliest times in the city stood out in the darkness, like
so many ghosts.

"Anyone who would run a garage down here," remarked Garrick, "deserves
to be arrested on sight."

"Except possibly for commercial vehicles," I ventured, looking at the
warehouses here and there.

"There are no commercial vehicles out at this hour," added Garrick
dryly.

At last our cab turned down a street that was particularly dark.

"This is it," announced Garrick, tapping on the glass for the driver to
stop at the corner. "We had better get out and walk the rest of the
way."

The garage which we sought proved to be nothing but an old brick
stable. It was of such a character that even charity could not have
said that it had seen much better days for generations. It was dark,
evil looking. Except for a slinking figure here and there in the
distance the street about us was deserted. Even our footfalls echoed
and Garrick warned us to tread softly. I longed for the big stick, that
went with the other half of the phrase.

He paused a moment to observe the place. It was near the corner and a
dim-lighted Raines law saloon on the next cross street ran back almost
squarely to the stable walls, leaving a narrow yard. Apparently the
garage itself had been closed for the night, if, indeed, it was ever
regularly open. Anyone who wanted to use it must have carried a key, I
surmised.

We crossed over stealthily. Garrick put his ear to an ordinary sized
door which had been cut out of the big double swinging doors of the
stable, and listened.

Not a sound.

Dillon, with the instinct of the roundsman in him still, tried the
handle of the door gently. To our surprise it moved. I could not
believe that anyone could have gone away and left it open, trusting
that the place would not be looted by the neighbours before he
returned. I felt instinctively that there must be somebody there, in
spite of the darkness.

The commissioner pushed in, however, followed closely by both of us,
prepared for an on-rush or a hand-to-hand struggle with anything, man
or beast.

A quick succession of shots greeted us. I do not recall feeling the
slightest sensation of pain, but with a sickening dizziness in the head
I can just vaguely remember that I sank down on the oil and grease of
the floor. I did not fall. It seemed as if I had time to catch myself
and save, perhaps, a fractured skull. But then it was all blank.

It seemed an age, though it could not have been more than ten minutes
later when I came to. I felt an awful, choking sensation in my throat
which was dry and parched. My lungs seemed to rasp my very ribs, as I
struggled for breath. Garrick was bending anxiously over me, himself
pale and gasping yet. The air was reeking with a smell that I did not
understand.

"Thank heaven, you're all right," he exclaimed, with much relief, as he
helped me struggle up on my feet. My head was still in a whirl as he
assisted me over to a cushioned seat in one of the automobiles standing
there. "Now I'll go back to Dillon," he added, out of breath from the
superhuman efforts he was putting forth both for us and to keep himself
together. "Wh--what's the matter? What happened?" I gasped, gripping
the back of the cushion to steady myself. "Am I wounded? Where was I
hit? I--I don't feel anything--but, oh, my head and throat!"

I glanced over at Dillon. He was pale and white as a ghost, but I could
see that he was breathing, though with difficulty. In the glare of the
headlight of a car which Garrick had turned on him, he looked ghastly.
I looked again to discover traces of blood. But there was none anywhere.

"We were all put out of business," muttered Garrick, as he worked over
Dillon. Dillon opened his eyes blankly at last, then struggled up to
his feet. "You got it worst, commissioner," remarked Garrick to him.
"You were closest."

"Got what?" he sputtered, "Was closest to what?"

We were all still choking over the peculiar odor in the fetid air about
us.

"The bulletless gun," replied Garrick.

Dillon looked at him a moment incredulously, in spite even of his
trying physical condition.

"It is a German invention," Garrick went on to explain, clearing his
throat, "and shoots, instead of bullets, a stupefying gas which
temporarily blinds and chokes its victims. The fellow who was in here
didn't shoot bullets at us. He evidently didn't care about adding any
more crimes to his list just now. Perhaps he thought that if he killed
any of us there would be too much of a row. I'm glad it was as it was,
anyway. He got us all, this way, before we knew it. Perhaps that was
the reason he used the gun, for if he had shot one of us with a pistol
I had my own automatic ready myself to blaze away. This way he got me,
too.

"A stupefying gun!" repeated Dillon. "I should say so. I don't know
what happened--yet," he added, blinking.

"I came to first," went on Garrick, now busily looking about, as we
were all recovered. "I found that none of us was wounded, and so I
guessed what had happened. However, while we were unconscious the
villain, whoever he was, succeeded in running his car out of the garage
and getting away. He locked the door after him, but I have managed to
work it open again."

Garrick was now examining the floor of the garage, turning the
headlight of the machine as much as he could on successive parts of the
floor.

"By George, Tom," he exclaimed to me suddenly, "see those marks in the
grease? Do you recognize them by this time? It is the same tire-mark
again--Warrington's car--without a doubt!"

Dillon had taken the photographs which Garrick had made several days
before from the prints left by the side of the road in New Jersey, and
was comparing them himself with the marks on the floor of the garage,
while Garrick explained them to him hurriedly, as he had already done
to me.

"We are getting closer to him, every time,'" remarked Garrick. "Even if
he did get away, we are on the trail and know that it is the right one.
He could not have been at the gambling joint, or he would never have
called up. Yet he must have known all about it. This has turned out
better than I expected. I suppose you don't feel so, but you must think
so."

It was difficult not to catch the contagion of Garrick's enthusiasm.
Dillon grunted assent.

"This garage," he put in, looking it over critically, "must act as a
fence for stolen cars and parts of cars. See, there over in the corner
is the stuff for painting new license numbers. Here's enough material
to rebuild a half dozen cars. Yes, this is one of the places that ought
to interest you and McBirney, Garrick. I'll bet the fellow who owns
this place is one of those who'd engage to sell you a second-hand car
of any make you wanted to name. Then he'd go out on the street and hunt
around until he got one. Of course, we'll find out his name, but I'll
wager that when we get the nominal owner we won't be able to extract a
thing from him in the way of actual facts."

Garrick had continued his examination of the floor. In a corner, near
the back, he had picked up an empty shell of a cartridge. He held it
down in the light of the car, and examined it long and carefully. As he
turned it over and over he seemed to be carefully considering it.
Finally, he dropped it carefully into his inside vest pocket, as though
it were a rare treasure.

"As I said at the start," quoted Garrick, turning to me, "we might get
a conviction merely on these cartridges. Anyhow, our man has escaped
from here. You can be sure that he won't come back--perhaps
never--certainly not at least for a long time, until he figures that
this thing has completely blown over."

"I'm going to keep my eye on the place, just the same," stoutly
insisted Dillon.

"Of course, by all means," reiterated Garrick. "The fact is, I expect
our next important clew will come from this place. The only thing I
want you to be careful of, Dillon, is not to be hasty and make an
arrest."

"Not make an arrest?" queried Dillon, who still felt the fumes in his
throat, and evidently longed to make someone pay the price--at least by
giving him the satisfaction of conducting a "third degree" down at
headquarters.

"No. You won't get the right man, and you may lose one who points
straight at him. Take my advice. Watch the place. There's more to be
gained by going at it cautiously. These people understand the old
hammer-and-tongs game."

Just then the smaller outside door grated on its rusty hinges. We
sprang to our feet, startled. Dillon leaped forward. Stupefying guns
had no taming effect on his nationality.

"Well, commish, is that the way you greet an old friend?" laughed
McBirney, as a threatened strangle-hold was narrowly averted and turned
into a handshake. "How are you fellows? I got your message, Garrick,
and thought I'd drop around. What's the matter? You all look as if
you'd been drawn through a wringer."

Briefly, to the accompaniment of many expressions of astonishment from
the insurance detective, Garrick related what had happened, from the
raid to the gas-gun.

"Well," gasped McBirney, sniffing the remains of the gas in the air,
"this is some place, isn't it? Neat, cozy, well-located--for a
murder--hello!--that's that ninety horsepower Despard that was stolen
from Murdock the other day, or I'll eat my hat."

He had raised the hood and was straining his eyes to catch a glimpse of
the maker's number on the engine, which had been all but obliterated by
a few judicious blows of a hammer.

Garrick was busy telling McBirney also about the marks of the tire on
the floor, as the detective looked over one car after another, as if he
had unearthed a veritable treasure-trove.

"No, your man could not have been at either of the gambling joints,"
agreed McBirney, as Garrick finished, "or he wouldn't have called up.
But he must have known them intimately. Perhaps he was in the pay of
someone there."

McBirney was much interested in what had been discovered, and was
trying to piece it together with what we had known before. "I wonder
whether he's the short fellow who drove the car when it was seen up
there, or the big fellow who was in the car when Warrington was shot,
up-state?"

The question was, as yet, unanswerable. None of us had been able to
catch a glimpse of his figure, muffled, in the darkness when he shot us.

All we knew was that even this man was unidentified and at large. The
murderer, desperate as he was, was still free and unknown, too. Were
they one and the same? What might not either one do next?

We sat down in one of the stolen cars and held a midnight council of
war. There were four of us, and that meant four different plans. Dillon
was for immediate and wholesale arrests. McBirney was certain of one
thing. He would claim the cars he could identify. The garage people
could not help knowing now that we had been there, and we conceded the
point to him with little argument, though it took great tact on
Garrick's part to swing over Dillon.

"I'm for arresting the garage-keeper, whoever he proves to be,"
persisted Dillon, however.

"It won't do any good," objected Garrick.

"Don't you see that it will be better to accept his story, or rather
seem to, and then watch him?"

"Watch him?" I asked, eager to propose my own plan of waiting there and
seizing each person who presented himself. "How can you watch one of
these fellows? They are as slippery as eels,--and as silent as a
muffler," I added, taking good-humouredly the general laugh that
greeted my mixed metaphor.

"You've suggested the precise idea, Marshall, by your very objection,"
broke in Garrick, who up to this time had been silent as to his own
plan.

"I've a brand-new system of espionage. Trust it to me, and you can all
have your way."




CHAPTER XII

THE DETECTAPHONE


I found it difficult to share Garrick's optimism, however. It seemed to
me that again the best laid plans of one that I had come to consider
among the cleverest of men had been defeated, and it is not pleasant to
be defeated, even temporarily. But Garrick was certainly not
discouraged.

As he had said at the start, it was no ordinary criminal with whom we
had to deal. That was clear. There had been gunmen and gangmen in New
York for years, we knew, but this fellow seemed to be the last word,
with his liquid bullets, his anesthetic shells and his stupefying gun.

We had agreed that the garage keeper would, of course, shed little
light on the mystery. He was a crook. But he would find no difficulty,
doubtless, in showing that there was nothing on which to hold him.

Still, Garrick had evidently figured out a way to go ahead while we had
all been floundering around, helpless. His silence had merely masked
his consideration of a plan.

"You three stay here," he ordered. "If anyone should come in, hold him.
Don't let anyone get away. But I don't think there will be anyone. I'll
be back within an hour or so."

It was far past midnight already, as we sat uncomfortably in the
reeking atmosphere of the garage. The hours seemed to drag
interminably. Almost I wished that something would happen to break the
monotony and the suspense. Our lonely vigil went unrewarded, however.
No one came; there was not even a ring at the telephone.

As nearly as I could figure it out, McBirney was the only one who
seemed to have gained much so far. He had looked over the cars most
carefully. There were half a dozen of them, in all.

"I don't doubt," he concluded, "that all of them have been stolen. But
there are only two here that I can identify. They certainly are clever
at fixing them up. Look at all the parts they keep ready for use. They
could build a car, here."

"Yes," agreed Dillon, looking at the expensive "junk" that was lying
about. "There is quite enough to warrant closing the place, only I
suppose Garrick is right. That would defeat our own purpose."

At last Garrick returned from his hurried trip down to the office. I
don't know what it was we expected him to bring, but I think we were
more or less disappointed when it proved to be merely a simple oblong
oak box with a handle.

He opened it and we could see that it contained in reality nothing but
a couple of ordinary dry cells, and some other paraphernalia. There
were two black discs, attached to a metal headpiece, discs about two
and a half inches in diameter, with a circular hole in the centre of
each, perhaps an inch across, showing inside what looked like a piece
of iron or steel.

Garrick carefully tested the batteries with a little ammeter which he
carried in a case.

"Sixteen amperes," he remarked to himself, "I don't attempt to use the
batteries when they fall below five. These are all right."

From a case he took a little round black disc, about the same size as
the other two. In its face it had a dozen or so small holes perforated
and arranged in the shape of a six-pointed star.

"I wonder where I can stow this away so that it won't attract
attention?" he asked.

Garrick looked about for the least used part of the garage and decided
that it was the back. Near the barred window lay a pile of worn tires
which looked as if it had been seldom disturbed except to be added to.
When one got tires as cheaply as the users of this garage did, it was
folly to bother much about the repair of old ones.

Back of this pile, then, he threw the little black disc carelessly,
only making sure that it was concealed. That was not difficult, for it
was not much larger than a watch in size.

To it, I noticed, he had attached two plugs that were
"fool-proof"--that is, one small and the other large, so that they
could not be inserted into the wrong holes. A long flexible green silk
covered wire, or rather two wires together, led from the disc. By
carefully moving the tires so as to preserve the rough appearance they
had of being thrown down hastily into the discard, he was able to
conceal this wire, also, in such a way as to bring it secretly to the
barred window and through it.

Next he turned his attention to the telephone itself. Another
instrument which he had brought with him was inserted in place of the
ordinary transmitter. It looked like it and had evidently been prepared
with that in view. I assumed that it must act like the ordinary
transmitter also, although it must have other uses as well. It was more
of a job to trace out the course of the telephone wires and run in a
sort of tap line at a point where it would not be likely to be noted.
This was done by Garrick, still working in silence, and the wires from
it led behind various things until they, too, reached another window
and so went to the outside.

As Garrick finished his mysterious tinkering and rose from his dusty
job to brush off his clothes, he remarked, "There, now you may have
your heart's desire, Dillon, if all you want to do is to watch these
fellows."

"What is it?" I hastened to ask, looking curiously at the oak box which
contained still everything except the tiny black disc and the wires
leading out of the window from it and from the new telephone
transmitter.

"This little instrument," he answered slowly, "is much more sensitive,
I think, than any mechanical or electrical eavesdropper that has ever
been employed before. It is the detectaphone--a new unseen listener."

"The detectaphone?" repeated Dillon. "How does it work?"

"Well, for instance," explained Garrick, "that attachment which I
placed on the telephone is much more than a sensitive transmitter such
as you are accustomed to use. It is a form of that black disc which you
saw me hide behind the pile of tires. There are, in both, innumerable
of the minutest globules of carbon which are floating around, as it
were, making it alive at all times to every sound vibration and
extremely sensitive even to the slightest sound waves. In the case of
the detectaphone transmitter, it only replaces the regular telephone
transmitter and its presence will never be suspected. It operates just
as well when the receiver is hung up as when it is off the hook, as far
as the purpose I have in mind is concerned, as you shall see soon. I
have put both forms in so that even if they find the one back of the
tires, even the most suspicious person would not think that anything
was contained in the telephone itself. We are dealing with clever
people and two anchors to windward are better than one."

Dillon nodded approval, but by the look on his face it was evident that
he did not understand the whole thing yet.

"That other disc, back of the tires," went on Garrick, "is the ordinary
detective form. All that we need now is to find a place to install this
receiving box--all this stuff that is left over--the two batteries, the
earpieces. You see the whole thing is very compact. I can get it down
to six inches square and four inches thick, or I can have it arranged
with earpieces so that at least six people can 'listen in' at
once--forms that can be used in detective work to meet all sorts of
conditions. Then there is another form of the thing, in a box about
four inches square and, perhaps, nine or ten inches long which I may
bring up later for another purpose when we find out what we are going
to do with the ends of those wires that are now dangling on the outside
of the window. We must pick up the connection in some safe and
inconspicuous place outside the garage."

The window through which the wires passed seemed to open, as I had
already noticed, on a little yard not much larger than a court. Garrick
opened the window and stuck his head out as far as the iron bars would
permit. He sniffed. The odor was anything but pleasant. It was a
combination of "gas" from the garage and stale beer from the saloon.

"No doubt about it, that is a saloon," remarked Garrick, "and they must
pile empty kegs out there in the yard. Let's take a walk around the
corner and see what the front of the place looks like."

It was a two and a half story building, with a sloping tin roof, of an
archaic architecture, in a state of terrible decay and dilapidation,
and quite in keeping with the neighbourhood. Nevertheless a bright gilt
sign over a side door read, "Hotel Entrance."

"I think we can get in there to-morrow on some pretext," decided
Garrick after our inspection of the "Old Tavern," as the crazy letters,
all askew, on one of the windows denoted the place. "The Old Tavern
looks as if it might let lodgings to respectable gentlemen--if they
were roughly enough dressed. We can get ourselves up as a couple of
teamsters and when we get in that will give us a chance to pick up the
ends of those wires to-morrow. That will be time enough, I'm sure, and
it is the best we can do, anyhow."

We returned from our walk around the block to the garage where Dillon
and McBirney were waiting for us.

"I leave you free to do what you please, Dillon," answered Garrick to
the commissioner's inquiry, "as long as you don't pinch this place
which promises to be a veritable gold-mine. McBirney, I know, will
reduce the number of cars here tomorrow by at least two. But don't, for
heaven's sake, let out any suspicion about those things I have just
hidden here. And now, as for me, I'm going uptown and get a few hours'
sleep."

Dillon and McBirney followed, leaving us, shortly, to get a couple of
men from the nearest police station to see that none of the cars were
taken out before morning.

We rode up to our apartment, where a message was awaiting us, telling
that Warrington had passed a very good day and was making much more
rapid progress than even Dr. Mead had dared hope. I could not help
wondering how much was due to the mere tonic presence daily of Violet
Winslow.

I had a sound sleep, although it was a short one. Garrick had me up
early, and, by digging back in his closet, unearthed the oldest clothes
he had. We improved them by sundry smears of dirt in such a way that
when we did start forth, no one would have accused us of being other
than we were prepared to represent ourselves--workmen who had been laid
off from a job on account of bad business conditions. We decided to say
that we were seeking another position.

"How do I look?" I asked seriously, for this was serious business to me.

"I don't know whether to give you a meal ticket, or to call a cop when
I look at you, Marshall," laughed Garrick.

"Well, I feel a good deal safer in this rig than I did last night, in
this part of the city," I replied as we hopped off a surface car not
far from our destination. "I almost begin to feel my part. Did you see
the old gink with the gold watch on the car? If he was here I believe
I'd hold him up, just to see what it is like. I suppose we are going to
apply for lodgings at the famous hostelry, the Old Tavern?"

"I had that intention," replied Garrick who could see no humour in the
situation, now that we were on the scene of action. "The place looks
even more sordid in daylight than at night. Besides, it smells worse."

We entered the tavern, and were greeted with a general air of rough
curiosity, which was quickly dispelled by our spending ten cents, and
getting change for a bill. At least we were good for anything
reasonable, and doubts on that score settled by the man behind the bar,
he consented to enter into conversation, which ultimately resulted in
our hiring a large back room upstairs in the secluded caravansary which
supplied "Furnished Rooms for Gentlemen Only."

Garrick said that we would bring our things later, and we went
upstairs. We were no sooner settled than he was at work. He had brought
a rope ladder, and, after fastening it securely to the window ledge, he
let himself down carefully into the narrow court below.

That was the only part of the operation that seemed to be attended with
any risk of discovery and it was accomplished safely. For one thing the
dirt on the windows both of the garage and the tavern was so thick that
I doubt whether so much caution was really necessary. Nevertheless, it
was a relief when he secured the ends of the wires from the
detectaphone and brought them up, pulling in the rope ladder after him.

It was now the work of but a minute to attach one of the wires that led
from the watchcase disc back of the pile of tires to the oak box with
its two storage batteries. Garrick held the ear-pieces, one to each
ear, then shoved them over his head, in place.

"It works--it works," he cried, with as much delight as if he had not
been positive all along that it would.

"Here, try it yourself," he added, taking the headgear off and handing
the receivers to me.

I put the black discs at my ears, with the little round holes over the
ear openings. It was marvellous. I could hear the men washing down one
of the cars, the swash of water, and, best of all, the low-toned, gruff
gossip.

"Just a couple of the men there, now," explained Garrick. "I gather
that they are talking about what happened last night. I heard one of
them say that someone they call 'the Chief' was there last night and
that another man, 'the Boss,' gave him orders to tell no one outside
about it. I suppose the Chief is our friend with the stupefying gun.
The Boss must be the fellow who runs the garage. What are they saying
now? They were grumbling about their work when I handed the thing over
to you."

I listened, fascinated by the marvel of the thing. I could hear
perfectly, although the men must have been in the front of the garage.

"Well, there's two of them yer won't haveter wash no more," one man was
saying. "A feller from the perlice come an' copped off two--that sixty
tin can and the ninety Despard."

"Huh--so the bulls are after him?"

"Yeh. One was here all night after the fight."

"Did they follow the Chief?"

"Follow the Chief? Say, when anyone follows the Chief he's gotter be
better than any bull that ever pounded a beat."

"What did the Boss say when he heard it?"

"Mad as---. We gotter lay low now."

"The Chief's gone up-state, I guess."

"We can guess all we want. The Boss knows. I don't."

"Why didn't they make a pinch? Ain't there nobody watchin' now?"

"Naw. They ain't got nothin' on us. Say, the Chief can put them fellers
just where he wants 'em. See the paper this morning? That was some raid
up at the joint--eh?"

"You bet. That Garrick's a pretty smooth chap. But the Chief can put it
all over him."

"Yep," agreed the other speaker.

I handed the receivers back to Garrick with a smile.

"You are not without some admirers," I remarked, repeating the
conversation substantially to him. "They'd shoot up the neighbourhood,
I imagine, if they knew the truth."

Hour after hour we took turns listening at the detectaphone. We
gathered a choice collection of slang and epithets, but very little
real news. However, it was evident that they had a wholesome respect
for both the Chief and the Boss. It seemed that the real head of the
gang, if it was a gang, had disappeared, as one of the men had already
hinted "up-state."

Garrick had meanwhile brought out the other detectaphone box, which was
longer and larger than the oak box.

"This isn't a regular detactaphone," he explained, "but it may vary the
monotony of listening in and sometime I may find occasion to use it in
another way, too."

In one of the long faces were two square holes, from the edges of which
the inside walls focussed back on two smaller, circular diaphragms.
That made the two openings act somewhat like megaphone horns to still
further magnify the sound which was emitted directly from this receiver
without using any earpieces, and could be listened to anywhere in the
room, if we chose. This was attached to the secret arrangement that had
been connected with the telephone by replacing the regular by the
prepared transmitter.

One of us was in the room listening all the time. I remember once,
while Guy had gone uptown for a short time, that I heard the telephone
bell ring in the device at my ear. Out of the larger box issued a voice
talking to one of the men.

It was the man whom they referred to as the Chief. He had nothing to
say when he learned that the Boss had not showed up since early morning
after he had been quizzed by the police. But he left word that he would
call up again.

"At least I know that our gunman friend, the Chief, is going to call up
to-night," I reported to Garrick on his return.

"I think he'll be here, all right," commented Garrick. "I called up
Dillon while I was out and he was convinced that the best way was, as I
said, to seem to let up on them. They didn't get a word out of the
fellow they call the Boss. He lives down here a couple of streets, I
believe, in a pretty tough place, even worse than the Old Tavern. I let
Dillon get a man in there, but I haven't much hope. He's only a tool of
the other whom they call Chief. By the way, Forbes has disappeared. I
can't find a trace of him since the raid on the gambling joint."

"Any word from Warrington?" I asked.

"Yes, he's getting along finely," answered Guy mechanically, as if his
thoughts were far away from Warrington. "Queer about Forbes," he
murmured, then cut himself short. "And, oh," he added, "I forgot to
tell you that speaking about Forbes reminds me that Herman has been
running out a clew on the Rena Taylor case. He has been all over the
country up there, he reports to Dillon, and he says he thinks the car
was seen making for Pennsylvania.

"They have a peculiar license law there, you know--at least he says
so--that enables one to conceal a car pretty well. Much good that does
us."

"Yes," I agreed, "you can always depend on a man like Herman to come
along with something like that---"

Just then the "master station" detectaphone connected with the
telephone in the garage began to talk and I cut myself short. We seemed
now at last about to learn something really important. It was a new
voice that said, "Hello!"

"Evidently the Boss has come in without making any noise," remarked
Guy. "I certainly heard no one through the other instrument. I fancy he
was waiting for it to get dark before coming around. Listen."

It was a long distance call from the man they called Chief. Where he
was we had no means of finding out, but we soon found out where he was
going.

"Hello, Boss," we heard come out of the detectaphone box.

"Hello, Chief. You surely got us nearly pinched last night. What was
the trouble?"

"Oh, nothing much. Somehow or other they must have got on to us. I
guess it was when I called up the joint on Forty-eighth Street. Three
men surprised me, but fortunately I was ready. If they hadn't stopped
at the door before they opened it, they might have got me. I put 'em
all out with that gun, though. Say, I want you to help me on a little
job that I am planning.

"Yes? Is it a safe one? Don't you think we'd better keep quiet for a
little while?"

"But this won't keep quiet. Listen. You know I told you about writing
that letter regarding Warrington to Miss Winslow, when I was so sore
over the report that he was going to close up the Forty-eighth Street
joint, right on top of finding that Rena Taylor had the 'goods' on the
Forty-seventh Street place? Well, I was a fool. You said so, and I was."

"You were--that's right."

"I know it, but I was mad. I hadn't got all I wanted out of those
places. Well, anyhow, I want that letter back--that's all. It's bad to
have evidence like that lying around. Why, if they ever get a real
handwriting expert they might get wise to something from that
handwriting, I'm afraid. I must have been crazy to do it that way."

"What became of the letter?"

"She took it to that fellow Garrick and I happen to know that
Warrington that night, after leaving Garrick, went to his apartment and
put something into the safe he has there. Oh, Warrington has it, all
right. What I want to do is to get that letter back while he is laid up
near Tuxedo. It isn't much of a safe, I understand. I think a can
opener would do the job. We can make the thing look like a regular
robbery by a couple of yeggs. Are you on?"

"No, I don't get you, Chief."

"Why?"

"It's too risky."

"Too risky?"

"Yes. That fellow Garrick is just as likely as not to be nosing around
up there. I'd go but for that."

"I know. But suppose we find that he isn't there, that he isn't in the
house--has been there and left it. That would be safe enough. You're
right. Nothing doing if he's there. We must can him in some way. But,
say,--I know how to get in all right without being seen. I'll tell you
later. Come on, be a sport. We won't try it if anybody's there.
Besides, if we succeed it will help to throw a scare into Warrington."

The man on our end of the telephone appeared to hesitate.

"I'll tell you what I'll do, Chief," he said at length. "I'll meet you
at the same place as we met the other day--you know where I mean--some
time after twelve. We'll talk it over. You're sure about the letter?"

"As sure as if I'd seen it."

"All right. Now, be there. I won't promise about this Warrington
business. We'll talk that over. But I have other things I want to tell
you--about this situation here at the garage. I want to know how to
act."

"All right. I'll be there. Good-bye."

"So long, Chief."

The conversation stopped. I looked anxiously at Garrick to see how he
had taken it.

"And so," he remarked simply, as after a moment's waiting we made sure
that the machine had stopped talking, "it appears that our friends, the
enemy, are watching us as closely as we are watching them--with the
advantage that they know us and we don't know them, except this garage
fellow."

Garrick lapsed into silence. I was rapidly turning over in my mind what
we had just overheard and trying to plan some way of checkmating their
next move.

"Here's a plot hatching to rob Warrington's safe," I exclaimed
helplessly.

"Yes," repeated Garrick slowly, "and if we are going to do anything
about it, it must be done immediately, before we arouse suspicion and
scare them off. Did you hear those footsteps over the detectaphone?
That was the Boss going out of the garage. So, they expect me around
there, nosing about Warrington's apartment. Well, if I do go there, and
then ostentatiously go away again, that will lure them on."

He reached his decision quickly. Grabbing his hat, he led the way out
of the Old Tavern and up the street until we came to a drug store with
a telephone.

I heard him first talking with Warrington, getting from him the
combination of the safe, over long distance. Then he called up his
office and asked the boy to meet him at the Grand Central subway
station with a package, the location of which he described minutely.

"We'll beat them to it," he remarked joyously, as we started leisurely
uptown to meet the boy.




Chapter XIII

THE INCENDIARY


"The Warrington estate owns another large apartment house, besides the
one where Warrington has his quarters, on the next street," remarked
Garrick, half an hour later, after we had met the boy from his office.
"I have arranged that we can get in there and use one of the empty
suites."

Garrick had secured two rather good-sized boxes from the boy, and was
carrying them rather carefully, as if they contained some very delicate
mechanism.

Warrington, we found, occupied a suite in a large apartment on
Seventy-second Street, and, as we entered, Garrick stopped and
whispered a few words to the hall-boy.

The boy seemed to be more than usually intelligent and had evidently
been told over the telephone by Warrington that we were coming. At
least we had no trouble, so far.

Warrington's suite was very tastefully furnished for bachelor quarters.
In the apartment, Garrick unwrapped one of the packages, and laid it
open on the table, while he busied himself opening the safe, using the
combination that Warrington had given him.

I waited nervously, for we could not be sure that no one had got ahead
of us, already. There was no need for anxiety, however.

"Here's the letter, just as Warrington left it," reported Garrick in a
few minutes, with some satisfaction, as he banged the safe door shut
and restored things so that it would not look as though the little
strong box had been touched.

Meanwhile, I had been looking curiously at the box on the table. It did
not seem to be like anything we had ever used before. One end was open,
and the lid lifted up on a pair of hinges. I lifted it and looked in.
About half way down the box from the open end was a partition which
looked almost as if some one had taken the end of the box and had just
shoved it in, until it reached the middle.

The open half was empty, but in the other half I saw a sort of plate of
some substance covering the outside of the shoved-in end. There was
also a dry cell and several arrangements for adjustments which I did
not understand. Back of the whole thing was a piece of mechanism, a
clockwork interrupter, as I learned later. Wires led out from the
closed end of the box.

Garrick shoved the precious letter into his pocket and then placed the
box in a corner, where it was hidden by a pile of books, with the open
end facing the room in the direction of the antiquated safe. The wires
from the box were quickly disposed of and dropped out of the window to
the yard, several stories below, where we could pick them up later as
we had done with the detectaphone.

"What's that?" I asked curiously, when at last he had finished and I
felt at liberty to question him.

"Well, you see," he explained, "there is no way of knowing yet just how
the apartment will be entered. They apparently have some way, though,
which they wouldn't discuss over the telephone. But it is certain that
as long as they know that there is anyone up here, they will put off
the attempt. They said that."

He was busily engaged restoring everything in the room as far as
possible to its former position.

"My scheme," he went on, "is for us now to leave the apartment
ostentatiously. I think that is calculated to insure the burglary, for
they must have someone watching by this time. Then we can get back to
that empty apartment in the house on the next street, and before they
can get around to start anything, we shall be prepared for them."

Garrick stopped to speak to the hall-boy again as we left, carrying the
other box. What he said I did not hear but the boy nodded intelligently.

After a turn down the street, a ride in a surface car for a few blocks
and back again, he was satisfied that no one was following us and we
made our way into the vacant apartment on Seventy-third Street, without
being observed.

Picking up the wires from the back yard of Warrington's and running
them across the back fence where he attached them to other wires
dropped down from the vacant apartment was accomplished easily, but it
all took time, and time was precious, just now.

In the darkness of the vacant room he uncovered and adjusted the other
box, connected one set of wires to those we had led in and another set
to an apparatus which looked precisely like the receiver of a wireless
telegraph, fitting over the head with an earpiece. He placed the
earpiece in position and began regulating the mechanism of the queer
looking box.

"I didn't want to use the detectaphone again," he explained as he
worked, "because we haven't any assurance that they'll talk, or, if
they do, that it will be worth while to listen. Besides, there may be
only one of them."

"Then what is this?" I asked.

"Well," he argued, "they certainly can't work without light of some
kind, can they?"

I acquiesced.

"This is an instrument which literally makes light audible," he pursued.

"Hear light?" I repeated, in amazement.

"Exactly," he reiterated. "You've said it. It was invented to assist
the blind, but I think I'll be able to show that it can be used to
assist justice--which is blind sometimes, they say. It is the
optophone."

He paused to adjust the thing more accurately and I looked at it with
an added respect.

"It was invented," he resumed, "by Professor Fournier d'Albe, a
lecturer on physics at the University of Birmingham, England, and has
been shown before many learned societies over there."

"You mean it enables the blind to see by hearing?" I asked.

"That's it," he nodded. "It actually enables the blind to locate many
things, purely by the light reflected by them. Its action is based on
the peculiar property of selenium, which, you probably know, changes
its electrical conductivity under the influence of light. Selenium in
the dark is a poor conductor of electricity; in the light it, strange
to say, becomes a good conductor. Variations of light can thus be
transmuted into variations of sound. That pushed-in end of the box
which we hid over in Warrington's had, as you might have noticed, a
selenium plate on the inside partition, facing the open end of the box."

"I understand," I agreed, vaguely.

"Now," he went on, "this property of selenium is used for producing or
rather allowing to be transmitted an electric current which is
interrupted by a special clockwork interrupter, and so is made audible
in this wireless telephone receiver which I have here connected with
this second box. The eye is replaced by the ear as the detector of
light--that is all."

It might have been all, but it was quite wonderful to me, even if he
spoke of it so simply. He continued to adjust the thing as he talked.

"The clockwork has been wound up by means of a small handle, and I have
moved that rod along a slit until I heard a purring sound. Then I moved
it until the purring sound became as faint as possible. The instrument
is at the present moment in its most sensitive state."

"What does it sound like?" I asked.

"Well, the passage of a hand or other object across the aperture is
indicated by a sort of murmuring sound," he replied, "the loudest sound
indicating the passage of the edges where the contrast is greatest. In
a fairly bright light, even the swiftest shadow is discoverable.
Prolonged exposure, however, blinds the optophone, just as it blinds
the eye."

"Do you hear anything now?" I asked watching his face curiously.

"No. When I turned the current on at first I heard a ticking or rasping
sound. I silenced that. But any change in the amount of light in that
dark room over there would restore the sound, and its intensity would
indicate the power of the light."

He continued to listen.

"When I first tried this, I found that a glimpse out of the window in
daylight sounded like a cinematograph reeling off a film. The ticking
sank almost into silence as the receiving apparatus was held in the
shadow of the office table, and leaped into a lively rattle again when
I brought it near an electric-light bulb. I blindfolded myself and
moved a piece of blotting paper between the receiver and the light. I
could actually hear the grating of the shadow, yes, I heard the shadow
pass. At night, too, I have found that it is even affected by the light
of the stars."

He glanced out of the window in the direction of Warrington's, which we
could not see, however, since it was around an angle of the building.

"See," he went on, "the moon is rising, and in a few minutes, I
calculate, it will shine right into that room over there on
Seventy-second Street. By using this optophone, I could tell you the
moment it does. Try the thing, yourself, Tom."

I did so. Though my ear was untrained to distinguish between sounds I
could hear just the faintest noise.

Suddenly there came a weird racket. Hastily I looked up at Garrick in
surprise.

"What is that?" I asked endeavouring to describe it. "Are they there
now?"

"No," he laughed. "That was the moon shining in. I wanted you to hear
what a difference it makes. When a ray of the sun, for instance,
strikes that 'feeler' over there, a harmonious and majestic sound like
the echo of a huge orchestra is heard. The light of the moon, on the
other hand, produces a different sound--lamenting, almost like the
groans of the wounded on a battlefield."

"So you can distinguish between various kinds of light?"

"Yes. Electric light, you would find if anyone came in and switched it
on over there, produces a most unpleasant sound, sometimes like two
pieces of glass rubbed against each other, sometimes like the tittering
laugh of ghosts, and I have heard it like the piercing cry of an
animal. Gaslight is sobbing and whispering, grating and ticking,
according to its intensity. By far the most melodious and pleasing
sound is produced by an ordinary wax candle. It sounds just like an
aeolian harp on which the chords of a solemn tune are struck. I have
even tried a glow-worm and it sounded like a bee buzzing. The light
from a red-hot piece of iron gives the shrillest and most ear-splitting
cry imaginable."

He took the receiver back from me and adjusted it to his own ear.

"Yes," he confirmed, "that was the moon, as I thought. It's a peculiar
sound. Once you have heard it you're not likely to forget it. I must
silence the machine to that."

We had waited patiently for a long time, and still there was no
evidence that anyone had entered the room.

"I'm afraid they decided not to attempt it after all," I said, finally.

"I don't think so," replied Garrick. "I took particular pains to make
it seem that the road was clear. You remember, I spoke to the hall-boy
twice, and we lingered about long enough when we left. It isn't much
after midnight. I wonder how it was that they expected to get in.
Ah--there goes the moon. I can hear it getting fainter all the time."

Suddenly Garrick's face was all animation. "What is it?" I asked
breathlessly.

"Someone has entered the room. There is a light which sounds just like
an electric flashlight which is being moved about. They haven't
switched on the electric light. Now, if I were sufficiently expert I
think I could tell by the varying sounds at just what that fellow is
flashing the light. There, something passed directly between the light
and the box. Yes, there must be two of them--that was the shadow of a
human being, all right. They are over in the corner by the safe, now.
The fellow with the flashlight is bending down. I can tell, because the
other fellow walked between the light and the box and the light must be
held very low, for I heard the shadows of both of his legs."

Garrick was apparently waiting only until the intruders, whoever they
were, were busily engaged in their search before he gave the alarm and
hurried over in an attempt to head off their escape by their secret
means of entrance.

"Tom," he cried, as he listened attentively, "call up the apartment
over there and get that hall-boy. Tell him he must not run that
elevator up until we get there. No one must leave or enter the
building. Tell him to lock the front door and conceal himself in the
door that leads down to the cellar. I will ring the night bell five
times to let him know when to let us in."

I was telephoning excitedly Garrick's instructions and as he waited for
me to finish he was taking a last turn at the optophone before we made
our dash on Warrington's.

A suppressed exclamation escaped him. I turned toward him quickly from
the telephone and hung up the receiver.

"What's the matter?" I asked anxiously.

For a moment he did not reply, but seemed to be listening with an
intensity that I knew betokened something unexpected.

"Tom," he cried abruptly, stripping the receiver from his head with a
jerk and clapping it over my own ears, "quick!--tell me what you hear.
What does it sound like to you? What is it? I can't be mistaken."

I listened feverishly. Not having had a former acquaintance with the
machine, I did not know just what to make of it. But from the receiver
of the little optophone there seemed to issue the most peculiar noise I
had ever heard a mechanical instrument make.

It was like a hoarse rumbling cry, now soft and almost plaintive, again
louder and like a shriek of a damned soul in the fires of the nether
world. Then it died down, only to spring up again, worse than before.

If I had been listening to real sounds instead of to light I should
have been convinced that the thing was recording a murder.

I described it as best I could. The fact was that the thing almost
frightened me by its weird novelty.

"Yes--yes," agreed Garrick, as the sensations I experienced seemed to
coincide with his own. "Exactly what I heard myself. I felt sure that I
could not be mistaken. Quick, Tom,--get central on that wire!"

A moment later he seized the telephone from me. I had expected him to
summon the police to assist us in capturing two crooks who had,
perhaps, devised some odd and scientific method of blowing up a safe.

"Hello, hello!" he shouted frantically over the wire. "The fire
department! This is eight hundred Seventy-second--on the corner; yes,
yes--northeast. I want to turn in an alarm. Yes--quick! There is a
fire--a bad one--incendiary--top floor. No, no--I'm not there. I can
see it. Hurry!"




CHAPTER XIV

THE ESCAPE


He had dropped the telephone receiver without waiting to replace it on
the hook and was now dashing madly out of the empty apartment and down
the street.

The hall-boy at Warrington's had done exactly as I had ordered him.
There was the elevator waiting as Garrick gave the five short rings at
the nightbell and the outside door was unlocked. No one had yet
discovered the fire which we knew was now raging on the top floor of
the apartment.

We were whirled up there swiftly, just as we heard echoing through the
hall and the elevator shaft from someone who had an apartment on the
same floor the shrill cry of, "Fire, fire!"

Tenants all the way up were now beginning to throw open their doors and
run breathlessly about in various states of undress. The elevator bell
was jangling insistently.

In the face of the crisis the elevator boy looked at Garrick
appealingly.

"Run your car up and down until all are out who want to go," ordered
Garrick. "Only tell them all that an alarm has already been turned in
and that there is no danger except to the suite that is on fire. You
may leave us here."

We had reached the top floor and stepped out. I realised fully now what
had happened. Either the robbers had found out only too quickly that
they had been duped or else they had reasoned that the letter they
sought had been hidden in a place in the apartment for which they had
no time to hunt.

It had probably been the latter idea which they had had and, instead of
hunting further, they had taken a quicker and more unscrupulous method
than Garrick had imagined and had set the room on fire. Fortunately
that had been promptly and faithfully reported to us over the optophone
in time to localize the damage.

"At least we were able to turn in an alarm only a few seconds after
they started the fire," panted Garrick, as he strained to burst in the
door.

Together we managed to push it in, and rushed into the stifle of
Warrington's suite. The whole thing was in flames and it was impossible
for us to remain there longer than to take in the situation.

Accordingly we retreated slowly before the fierce blaze. One of the
other tenants came running with a fire extinguisher in either hand from
wall rack down the hall on this floor. As well try to drown a blast
furnace. They made no impression whatever.

Personally I had expected nothing like this. I had been prepared up to
the time the optophone reported the fire to dash over and fight it out
at close quarters with two as desperate and resourceful men as
underworld conditions in New York at that time had created. Instead we
saw no one at all.

The robbers had evidently worked in seconds instead of minutes,
realizing that they must take no risks in a showdown with Garrick.
Rooms that might perhaps have given some clew of their presence,
perhaps finger-prints which might have settled their identity at once,
were now being destroyed. We had defeated them. We had the precious
letter. But they had again slipped away.

Firemen were now arriving. A hose had been run up, and a solid stream
of water was now hissing on the fire. Smoke and steam were everywhere
as the men hacked and cut their way at the very heart of the hungry red
monster.

"We are only in the way here, Tom," remarked Garrick, retreating
finally. "Our friends must have entered and escaped by the roof. There
is no other way."

He had dashed up ahead of the firemen. I followed. Sure enough, the
door out on the roof had been broken into. A rope tied around a chimney
showed how they had pulled themselves up and later let themselves down
to the roof of the next apartment some fifteen feet lower. We could see
an open door leading to the roof there, which must also have been
broken open. That had evidently been the secret method of which the
Chief had spoken to the Boss, whoever they might be, who bore these
epithets.

Pursuit was useless, now. All was excitement. From the street we could
hear the clang of engines and trucks arriving and taking their
positions, almost as if the fire department had laid out the campaign
beforehand for this very fire.

Anyone who had waited a moment or so in the other apartment down the
street might have gone downstairs without attracting any attention.
Then he might have disappeared in or mingled with the very crowd on the
street which he had caused to gather. Late as it was, the crowd seemed
to spring from nowhere, and to grow momentarily as it had done during
the raid on the gambling joint. It was one of the many interesting
night phenomena of New York.

What had been intended to be one of the worst fires and to injure a
valuable property of the Warrington estate had, thanks to the prompt
action of Garrick, been quickly turned into only a minor affair, at the
worst. The fire had eaten its way into two other rooms of Warrington's
own suite, but there it had been stopped. The building itself was
nearly fireproof, and each suite was a unit so that, to all intents and
purposes, it might burn out without injury to others.

Still, it was interesting to watch the skill and intuition of the
smoke-eaters as they took in the situation and almost instantly seemed
to be able to cope with it.

Sudden and well-planned though the incendiary assault had been, it was
not many minutes before it was completely under control. Men in rubber
coats and boots were soon tramping through the water-soaked rooms of
Warrington. Windows were cracked open and the air in the rooms was
clearing.

We followed in cautiously after one of the firemen. Everywhere was the
penetrating smell of burnt wood and cloth. In the corner was the safe,
still hot and steaming. It had stood the strain. But it showed marks of
having been tampered with.

"Somebody used a 'can-opener' on it," commented Garrick, looking at it
critically and then ruefully at the charred wreck of his optophone that
had tumbled in the ashes of the pile of books under which it had been
hidden, "Yes, that was the scheme they must have evolved after their
midnight conference,--a robbery masked by a fire to cover the trail,
and perhaps destroy it altogether."

"If we had only known that," I agreed, "we might have saved what little
there was in that safe for Warrington. But I guess he didn't keep much
there."

"No," answered Garrick, "I don't think he did. All I saw was some
personal letters and a few things he apparently liked to have around
here. I suppose all the really valuable stuff he has was in a
safety-deposit vault somewhere. There was a packet of--it's gone! What
do you think of that?" he exclaimed looking up from the safe to me in
surprise.

"Packet of what?" I asked. "What is gone?"

"Why," replied Garrick, "I couldn't help noticing it when I opened the
safe before, but Warrington had evidently saved every line and scrap of
writing that Violet Winslow had ever given him and it was all in one of
the compartments of the safe. The compartment is empty!"

Neither of us could say a word. What reason might there be why anyone
should want Warrington's love letters? Was it to learn something that
might be used to embarrass him? Might it be for the purpose of holding
him up for money? Did the robber want them for himself or was he
employed by another? These and a score of other questions flashed,
unanswered, through my mind.

"I wonder who this fellow is that they call the Chief?" I ventured at
last.

"I can't say--yet," admitted Garrick. "But he's the cleverest I have
ever met. His pace is rapid, but I think we are getting up with it, at
last. There's no use sticking around here any longer, though. The place
for us, I think, is downtown, getting an earful at the other end of
that detectaphone."

The engines and other apparatus were rolling away from the fire when we
regained the street and things were settling themselves down to normal
again.

We rode downtown on the subway, and I was surprised when Garrick,
instead of going all the way down to the crosstown line that would take
us to the Old Tavern, got off at Forty-second Street.

"What's the idea of this?" I asked.

"Do you think I'm going to travel around the city with that letter in
my pocket?" he asked. "Not much, since they seem to set such a value on
getting it back. Of course, they don't know that I have it. But they
might suspect it. At any rate I'm not going to run any chances of
losing it."

He had stopped at a well-known hotel where he knew the night clerk.
There he made the letter into a little package, sealed it, and
deposited it in the safe.

"Why do you leave it here?" I asked.

"If I go near the office, they might think I left it there, and I
certainly won't leave it in my own apartment. They may or may not
suspect that I have it. At any rate, I'd hate to risk meeting them down
in their own region. But here we are not followed. I can leave it
safely and to-morrow I'll get it and deposit it in a really safe place.
Now, just to cover up my tracks, I'm going to call up Dillon, but I'm
going up Broadway a bit before I do so, so that even he will not know
I've been in this hotel. I think he ought to know what has happened
to-day."

"What did he say?" I asked as Garrick rejoined me from the telephone
booth, his face wearing a scowl of perplexity.

"Why, he knew about it already," replied Garrick. "I got him at his
home. Herman, it seems, got back from some wild-goose chase over in New
Jersey and saw the report in the records filed at police headquarters
and telephoned him."

"Herman is one of the brightest detectives I ever met," I commented in
disgust. "He always manages to get in just after everybody else. Has he
any more news?"

"About the car?" asked Garrick absently. "Nothing except that he ran
down the Pennsylvania report and found there was nothing in it. Now he
says that he thinks the car may have returned to New York, perhaps by
way of Staten Island, for he doubts whether it could have slipped in by
New Jersey."

"Clever," I ejaculated. "I suppose that occurred to him as soon as he
read about the fire. I have to hand it to him for being a deducer."

Garrick smiled.

"There's one thing, though, he does know," he added, "and that is the
gossip of the underworld right here in New York."

"I should hope so," I replied. "That was his business to know. Why, has
he found out anything really new?"

"Why--er--yes. Dillon tells me that it now appears that Forbes had been
intimate with that Rena Taylor."

"Yes?" I repeated, not surprised.

"At least that's what Herman has told him."

"Well," I exclaimed in disgust, "Forbes is a fine one to run around
with stool-pigeons and women of the Tenderloin, in addition to his
other accomplishments, and then expect to associate with a girl like
Violet Winslow."

"It is scandalous," he agreed. "Why, according to Dillon and Herman,
she must have been getting a good deal of evidence through her intimacy
with Forbes. They probably gambled together, drank together, and---"

"Do you suppose Forbes ever found out that she was really using him?"

Garrick shook his head. "I can't say," he replied. "There isn't much
value in this deductive, long distance detective work. You reason a
thing out to your satisfaction and then one little fact knocks all your
clever reasoning sky-high. The trouble here is that on this aspect of
the case the truth seems to have been known by only two persons--and
one of them is dead, while the other has disappeared."

"Strange what has become of Forbes," I ruminated.

"It is indeed," agreed Garrick. "But then he was such a night-hawk that
anything might easily have happened and no one be the wiser. Since you
saw him enter the gambling joint the night of the raid, I've been
unable to get a line on him. He must have gone through the tunnel to
the ladies' poolroom, but after he left that, presumably, I can't find
a trace of him. Where he went no one seems to know. This bit of gossip
that Herman has unearthed is the first thing I've heard of him,
definitely, for two days."

"If Rena Taylor were alive," I speculated, "I don't think you'd have to
look further for Forbes than to find her."

"But she isn't alive," concluded Garrick, "and there is nothing to show
that there was anyone else at the poolroom for women who interested
him--and--well, this isn't getting back to business."

He turned toward the street.

"Let's go down on a surface car," he said. "I think we ought to learn
something down there at the Old Tavern, now. If these people have done
nothing more, they'll think they have at least given an example of
their resourcefulness and succeeded in throwing another scare into
Warrington. But there's one thing I'd like to be able to tell Mr.
Chief, however. He can't throw any scare into me, if that's his game."




CHAPTER XV

THE PLOT


We had been able to secure a key to the hotel entrance of the Old
Tavern, so that we felt free to come and go at any hour of the day or
night. We let ourselves in and mounted the stairs cautiously to our
room.

"At least they haven't discovered anything, yet," Garrick congratulated
himself, looking about, as I struck a light, and finding everything as
we had left it.

Late as it was, he picked up the detective receiver of the mechanical
eavesdropper and held it to his ears, listening intently several
moments.

"There's someone in the garage, all right," he exclaimed. "I can hear
sounds as if he were moving about among the cars. It must be the garage
keeper himself--the one they call the Boss. I don't think our clever
Chief would have the temerity to show up here yet, even at this hour."

We waited some time, but not the sound of a voice came from the
instrument.

"It would be just like them to discover one of these detectaphones,"
remarked Garrick at length. "This is a good opportunity. I believe I'll
just let myself down there in the yard again and separate those two
wires, further. There's no use in risking all the eggs in one basket."

While I listened in, Garrick cautiously got out the rope ladder and
descended. Through the detectaphone I could hear the noise of the man
walking about the garage and was ready at the window to give Garrick
the first alarm of danger if he approached the back of the shop, but
nothing happened and he succeeded in accomplishing his purpose of
further hiding the two wires and returning safely. Then we resumed
listening in relays.

It was early in the morning when there came a telephone call to the
garage and the garage keeper answered it.

"Where did you go afterward?" he asked of the man who was calling him.

Garrick had quickly shifted to the instrument by which we could
overhear what was said over the telephone.

A voice which I recognised instantly as that of the man they called the
Chief replied, "Oh, I had a little business to attend to--you
understand. Say, they got that fire out pretty quickly, didn't they?
How do you suppose the alarm could have been turned in so soon?"

"I don't know. But they tell me that Garrick and that other fellow with
him showed up, double quick. He must have been wise to something."

"Yes. Do you know, I've been thinking about that ever since. Ever hear
of a little thing called a detectaphone? No? Well, it's a little
arrangement that can be concealed almost anywhere. I've been wondering
whether there might not be one hidden about your garage. He might have
put one in that night, you know. I'm sure he knows more about us than
he has any right to know. Hunt around there, will you, and see if you
can find anything?"

"Hold the wire."

We could hear the Boss poking around in corners, back of the piles of
accessories, back of the gasoline tank, lifting things up and looking
under them, apparently flashing his light everywhere so that nothing
could escape him.

A hasty exclamation was recorded faithfully over our detectaphone,
close to the transmitter, evidently.

"What the deuce is this?" growled a voice.

Then over the telephone we could hear the Boss talking.

"There's a round black thing back of a pile of tires, with a wire
connected to it. One side of it is full of little round holes. Is that
one of those things?"

"Yes," came back the voice, "that's it." Then excitedly, "Smash it! Cut
the wires--no, wait--look and see where they run. I thought you'd find
something. Curse me for a fool for not thinking of that before."

Garrick had quickly himself detached the wire from the receiving
instrument in our room and, sticking his head cautiously out of the
window, he swung the cut ends as far as he could in the direction of a
big iron-shuttered warehouse down the street in the opposite direction
from us.

Then he closed the window softly and pulled down the switch on the
other detectaphone connected with the fake telephone receiver.

He smiled quietly at me. The thing worked still. We had one connection
left with the garage, anyway.

There was a noise of something being shattered to bits. It was the
black disc back of the pile of tires. We could hear the Boss muttering
to himself.

"Say," he reported back over the telephone, "I've smashed the thing,
all right, and cut the wires, too. They ran out of the back window to
that mercantile warehouse, down the street, I think. I'll look after
that in the morning. It's so dark over there now I can't see a thing."

"Good!" exclaimed the other voice with satisfaction. "Now we can talk.
That fellow Garrick isn't such a wise guy, after all. I tell you, Boss,
I'm going to throw a good scare into them this time--one that will
stick."

"What is it?"

"Well, I got Warrington, didn't I?"

"Yes."

"You know I can't always be following that fellow, Garrick. He's too
clever at dodging shadows. Besides, unless we give him something else
to think about he may get a line on one of us,--on me. Don't you
understand? Warrington's out of it for the present. I saw to that. Now,
the thing is to fix up something to call them off, altogether,
something that we can use to hold them up."

"Yes--go on--what?"

"Why--how about Violet Winslow?"

My heart actually skipped beating for a second or two as I realised the
boldness and desperation of the plan.

"What do you mean--a robbery up there in Tuxedo?"

"No, no, no. What good would a robbery do? I mean to get her--kidnap
her. I guess Warrington would call the whole thing off to release
her--eh?"

"Say, Chief, that's going it pretty strong. I'd rather break in up
there and leave a threat of some kind, something that would frighten
them. But, this,--I'm afraid--"

"Afraid--nothing. I tell you, we've got to do it. They're getting too
close to us. We've either got to get Garrick or do something that'll
call him off for good. Why, man, the whole game is up if he keeps on
the way he has been going--let alone the risk we have of getting
caught."

The Boss seemed to be considering.

"How will you get a chance to do it?" he asked at length.

"Oh, I'll get a chance, all right. I'll make a chance," came back the
self-confident reply.

It sent a shiver through me merely to contemplate what might happen if
Violet Winslow fell into such hands. Mentally I blessed Garrick for his
forethought in having the phony 'phone in the garage against possible
discovery of the detective instrument.

"You know this poisoned needle stuff that's been in the papers?"
pursued the Chief.

"Bunk--all bunk," came back the Boss promptly.

"Is that so?" returned the Chief. "Well, you're right about it as far
as what has been in the papers is concerned. I don't know but I doubt
about ninety-nine and ninety-nine hundredths per cent of it, too. But,
I'll tell you,--it can be done. Take it from me--it can be done. I've
got one of the best little sleepmakers you ever saw--right from Paris,
too. There, what do you know about that?"

I glanced hastily, in alarm, at Garrick. His face was set in hard
lines, as he listened.

"Sleepmaker--Paris," I heard him mutter under his breath, and just a
flicker of a smile crossed the set lines of his fine face.

"Yes, sir," pursued the voice of the Chief, "I can pull one of those
poisoned needle cases off and I'm going to do it, if I get half a
chance."

"When would you do it?" asked the Boss, weakening.

"As soon as I can. I've a scheme. I'm not going to tell you over the
wire, though. Leave it to me. I'm going up to our place, where I left
the car. I'll study the situation out, up there. Maybe I'll run over
and look over the ground, see how she spends her time and all that sort
of thing. I've got to reckon in with that aunt, too. She's a Tartar.
I'll let you know. In the meantime, I want you to watch that place on
Forty-seventh Street. Tell me if they make any move against it. Don't
waste any time, either. I can't be out of touch with things the way I
was the last time I went away. You see, they almost put one across on
us--in fact they did put one across with that detectaphone thing. Now,
we can't let that happen again. Just keep me posted, see?"

They had finished talking and that was apparently all we were to get
that night, or rather that morning, by way of warning of their plot for
the worst move yet.

It was enough. If they would murder and burn, what would they stop at
in order to strike at us through the innocent figure of Violet Winslow?
What might not happen to such a delicate slip of a girl in the power of
such men?

"At least," rapped out Garrick, himself smothering his alarm, "they
can't do anything immediately. It gives us time to prepare and warn.
Besides, before that we may have them rounded up. The time has come for
something desperate. I won't be trifled with any longer. This last
proposal goes just over the limit."

As for me, I was speechless. The events of the past two days, the
almost sleepless nights had sapped my energy. Even Garrick, though he
was a perfect glutton for work, felt the strain.

It was very late, or rather very early, and we determined to snatch a
few moments of sleep at the Old Tavern before the rest of the world
awoke to the new day. It was only a couple of hours that we could
spare, but it was absolutely necessary.

In spite of our fatigue, we were up again early and after another try
at the phony 'phone which told us that only the men were working in the
garage, we were on our way up to Garrick's apartment.

We had scarcely entered when the telephone boy called up to say that
there was a Mr. Warrington on long distance trying to get us. Garrick
eagerly asked to have him put on our wire.

Warrington, it seemed, had been informed of the fire by one of his
agents and was inquiring anxiously for details, especially about the
letter. Garrick quickly apologised for not calling up himself, and
relieved his anxiety by assuring him that the letter was safe.

"And how are you?" he asked of Warrington.

"Convalescing rapidly," laughed back the patient, to whom the loss of
anything was a mere bagatelle beside the letter. Garrick had not told
him yet of the stealing of the other letters. "Getting along
fine,--thanks to a new tonic which Dr. Mead has prescribed for me."

"I can guess what it is."

Warrington laughed again. "Yes--I've been allowed to take short motor
trips with Violet," he explained.

The natural manner in which "Violet" replaced "Miss Winslow" indicated
that the trips had not been without result.

"Say, Warrington," burst out Garrick, seeing an opportunity of
introducing the latest news, "I hate to butt in, but if you'll take my
advice, you'll just cut out those trips a few days. I don't want to
alarm you unnecessarily, but after to-day I want Miss Winslow never to
be out of sight of friends--friends, I said; not one, but several."

"Why--what's the matter?" demanded Warrington in alarm.

"I can't explain it all over the telephone," replied Garrick, sketching
out hastily something of what we had overheard. "I'll try to see you
before long--perhaps to-day. Don't forget. I want you to warn Miss
Winslow yourself. You can't put it too strongly. Use your judgment
about Mrs. de Lancey. I don't want to get you in wrong with her. But,
remember, it's a matter of life or death--or perhaps worse. Try to do
it without unnecessarily alarming Miss Winslow, if you can. Just fix it
up as quietly as possible. But be positive about it. No, I can't
explain more over the wire now. But--no more outings for either of you,
and particularly Miss Winslow, until I raise the ban."

Warrington had been inclined to argue the matter at first, but Garrick
of course quickly prevailed, the more so because Warrington realised
that in his condition he was anything but an adequate body-guard for
her if something unexpected should happen.

"Oh--I had a call the other day," reported Warrington as an
afterthought before hanging up the receiver. "It was from McBirney. He
says one of his unofficial scouts has told him of seeing a car that
might have been mine up this way lately."

Garrick acquiesced to the information which, to us, was not new. "Yes,"
he said, "there have been several such reports. And, by the way, that
reminds me of something. You will have to put at our disposal one of
your cars down here."

"Go as far as you like. What do you want--a racer?"

"Why--yes, if it's in perfect condition. You see, we may have to do
some unexpected sleuthing in it."

"Go as far as you like," repeated Warrington, now thoroughly aroused by
the latest development of the case. "Spare nothing, Garrick--nothing.
Curse my luck for being laid up! Every dollar I have is at your
disposal, Garrick, to protect her from those scoundrels--damn them!"

"Trust me, Warrington," called back Garrick. "I give you my word that
it's my fight now."

"Garrick--you're a brick," came back Warrington as the conversation
closed.

"Good heavens, Guy," I exclaimed when he hung up the receiver after
calling up Warrington's garage and finding out what cars were
available, "Are we going to have to extend operations over the whole
State, after all?"

"We may have to do almost anything," he replied, "if our scientific
murderer tries some of his smooth kidnapping tricks. It's possible that
McBirney may be right about that car being up there. Certainly we know
that it has been up there, whether it is now or not."

"And Herman wrong about its being in the city?" I suggested. "Well, one
guess is as good as another in a case like this, I suppose."

It had been a great relief to get back to our rooms and live even for a
few minutes like civilised beings. I suggested that we might have a
real breakfast once more.

I could tell, however, that Garrick's mind was far away from the
thought of eating, and that he realised that a keen, perhaps the
keenest, test of his ability lay ahead of him, if he was to come out
successfully and protect Violet Winslow in the final battle with the
scientific gunman. I did not interrupt him.




CHAPTER XVI

THE POISONED NEEDLE


Over a still untasted grapefruit Garrick was considering what his next
move should be. As for me, even this temporary return to a normal life
caused me to view things in a different light.

There had been, as the Chief and the Boss had hinted at in their
conversation, a wave of hysteria which had swept over the city only a
short time before regarding what had come to be called the "poisoned
needle" cases. Personally I had doubted them and I had known many
doctors and scientists as well as vice and graft investigators who had
scouted them, too.

"Garrick," I said at length, "do you really think that we have to deal
with anything in this case but just plain attempted kidnapping of the
old style?"

He shook his head doubtfully. I knew him to be anything but an alarmist
and waited impatiently for him to speak.

"I wouldn't think so," he said at length slowly, "except for one thing."

"What's that?" I asked eagerly.

"His mention of the 'sleepmakers' and Paris," he replied briefly.

Garrick had risen and walked over to a cabinet in the corner of his
room. When he returned it was with something gleaming in the morning
sunshine as he rolled it back and forth on a piece of paper, just a
shining particle. He picked it up carefully.

I bent over to look at it more closely and there, in Garrick's hand,
was a tiny bit of steel, scarcely three-eighths of an inch long, a mere
speck. It was like nothing of which I had ever heard or read. Yet
Garrick himself seemed to regard the minute thing with a sort of awe.
As for me, I knew not what to make of it. I wondered whether it might
not be some new peril.

"What is it?" I asked at length, seeing that Garrick might be disposed
to talk, if I prompted him.

"Well," he answered laconically, holding it up to the light so that I
could see that it was in reality a very minute, pointed hollow tube,
"what would you say if I told you it was the point of a
new--er--poisoned needle?"

He said it in such a simple tone that I reacted from it toward my own
preconceived notions of the hysterical newspaper stories.

"I've heard about all the poisoned needle stories," I returned. "I've
investigated some of them and written about them for my paper, Guy. And
I must say still that I doubt them. Now in the first place, the mere
insertion of a hypodermic needle--of course, you've had it done,
Guy--is something so painful that anyone in his senses would cry aloud.
Then to administer a drug that way requires a great deal of skill and
knowledge of anatomy, if it is to be done with full and quick effect."

Garrick said nothing, but continued to regard the hollow point which he
had obtained somewhere, perhaps on a previous case.

"Why, such an injection," I continued, recalling the result of my
former careful investigations on the subject, "couldn't act
instantaneously anyhow, as it must if they are to get away with it.
After the needle is inserted, the plunger has to be pushed down, and
the whole thing would take at least thirty seconds. And then, the
action of the drug. That would take time, too. It seems to me that in
no case could it be done without the person's being instantly aware of
it and, before lapsing into unconsciousness, calling for help or--"

"On the contrary," interrupted Garrick quietly, "it is absurdly easy.
Waiving the question whether they might not be able to get Violet
Winslow in such a situation where even the old hypodermic method which
you know would serve as well as any other, why, Marshall, just the hint
that fellow dropped tells me that he could walk up to her on the street
or anywhere else, and--"

He did not finish the sentence, but left it to my imagination. It was
my turn, now, to remain silent.

"You are right, though, Tom, in one respect," he resumed a moment
later. "It is not easy by the old methods that everyone now knows. For
instance, take the use of chloral-knock-out drops, you know. That is
crude, too. Hypodermics and knock-out drops may answer well enough,
perhaps, for the criminals whose victims are found in cafes and dives
of a low order. But for the operations of an aristocratic criminal of
to-day--and our friend the Chief seems to belong to the aristocracy of
the underworld--far more subtle methods are required. Let me show you
something."

Carefully, from the back of a drawer in the cabinet, where it was
concealed in a false partition, he pulled out a little case. He opened
it, and in it displayed a number of tiny globes and tubes of thin
glass, each with a liquid in it, some lozenges, some bonbons, and
several cigars and cigarettes.

"I'm doing this," he remarked, "to show you, Tom, that I'm not unduly
magnifying the danger that surrounds Violet Winslow, after hearing what
I did over that detectaphone. Perhaps it didn't impress you, but I
think I know something of what we're up against."

From another part of the case he drew a peculiar looking affair and
handed to me without a word. It consisted of a glass syringe about two
inches long, fitted with a glass plunger and an asbestos washer. On the
other end of the tube was a hollow point, about three-eighths of an
inch long--just a shiny little bit of steel such as he had already
showed me.

I looked at it curiously and, in spite of my former assurance, began to
wonder whether, after all, the possibility of a girl being struck down
suddenly, without warning, in a public place and robbed--or
worse--might not take on the guise of ghastly reality.

"What do you make of it?" asked Garrick, evidently now enjoying the
puzzled look on my face.

I could merely shrug my shoulders.

"Well," he drawled, "that is a weapon they hinted at last night. The
possibilities of it are terrifying. Why, it could easily be plunged
through a fur coat, without breaking."

He took the needle and made an imaginary lunge at me.

"When people tell you that the hypodermic needle cannot be employed in
a case like this that they are planning," he continued, "they are
thinking of ordinary hypodermics. Those things wouldn't be very
successful usually, anyhow, under such circumstances. But this is
different. The very form of this needle makes it particularly effective
for anyone who wishes to use it for crime. For instance--take it on a
railroad or steamship or in a hotel. Draw back the plunger--so--one
quick jab--then drop it on the floor and grind it under your heel. The
glass is splintered into a thousand bits. All evidence of guilt is
destroyed, unless someone is looking for it practically with a
microscope."

"Yes," I persisted, "that is all right--but the pain and the moments
before the drug begins to work?"

With one hand Garrick reached into the case, selecting a little thin
glass tube, and with the other he pulled out his handkerchief.

"Smell that!" he exclaimed, bending over me so that I could see every
move and be prepared for it.

Yet it was done so quickly that I could not protect myself.

"Ugh!" I ejaculated in surprise, as Garrick manipulated the thing with
a legerdemain swiftness that quite baffled me, even though he had given
me warning to expect something.

Everyone has seen freak moving picture films where the actor suddenly
bobs up in another place, without visibly crossing the intervening
space. The next thing I knew, Garrick was standing across the room, in
just that way. The handkerchief was folded up and in his pocket.

It couldn't have been done possibly in less than a minute. What had
happened? Where had that minute or so gone? I felt a sickening
sensation.

"Smell it again?" Garrick laughed, taking a step toward me.

I put up my hand and shook my head negatively, slowly comprehending.

"You mean to tell me," I gasped, "that I was--out?"

"I could have jabbed a dozen needles into you and you would never have
known it," asserted Garrick with a quiet smile playing over his face.

"What is the stuff?" I asked, quite taken aback.

"Kelene--ethyl chloride. Whiff!--and you are off almost in a second. It
is an anaesthetic of nearly unbelievable volatility. It comes in little
hermetically sealed tubes, with a tiny capillary orifice, to prevent
its too rapid vaporising, even when opened for use. Such a tube may be
held in the palm of the hand and the end crushed off. The warmth of the
hand alone is sufficient to start a veritable spray. It acts violently
on the senses, too. But kelene anaesthesia lasts only a minute or so.
The fraction of time is long enough. Then comes the jab with the real
needle--perhaps another whiff of kelene to give the injection a chance.
In two or three minutes the injection itself is working and the victim
is unconscious, without a murmur--perhaps, as in your case, without any
clear idea of how it all happened--even without recollection of a
handkerchief, unable to recall any sharp pain of a needle or anything
else."

He was holding up a little bottle in which was a thick, colorless syrup.

"And what is that?" I asked, properly tamed and no longer disposed to
be disputatious.

"Hyoscine."

"Is it powerful?"

"One one-hundredth of a grain of this strength, perhaps less, will
render a person unconscious," replied Garrick. "The first symptom is
faintness; the pupils of the eyes dilate; speech is lost; vitality
seems to be floating away, and the victim lapses into unconsciousness.
It is derived from henbane, among ether things, and is a rapid,
energetic alkaloid, more rapid than chloral and morphine. And, preceded
by a whiff of kelene, not even the sensations I have described are
remembered."

I could only stare at the outfit before me, speechless.

"In Paris, where I got this," continued Garrick, "they call these
people who use it, 'endormeurs'--sleepmakers. That must have been what
the Chief meant when he used that word. I knew it."

"Sleepmakers," I repeated in horror at the very idea of such a thing
being attempted on a young girl like Violet Winslow.

"Yes. The standard equipment of such a criminal consists of these
little thin glass globes, a tiny glass hypodermic syringe with a sharp
steel point, doped cigars and cigarettes. They use various derivatives
of opium, like morphine and heroin, also codeine, dionin, narcein,
ethyl chloride and bromide, nitrite of amyl, amylin,--and the skill
that they have acquired in the manipulation of these powerful drugs
stamps them as the most dangerous coterie of criminals in existence.
Now," he concluded, "doubt it or not, we have to deal with a man who is
a proficient student of these sleepmakers. Who is he, where is he, and
when will he strike?"

Garrick was now pacing excitedly up and down the room.

"You see," he added, "the police of Europe by their new scientific
methods are driving such criminals out of the various countries. Thank
heaven, I am now prepared to meet them if they come to America."

"Then you think this is a foreigner?" I asked meekly.

"I didn't say so," Garrick replied. "No. I think this is a criminal
exceptionally wide awake, one who studies and adopts what he sees
whenever he wants it. If you recall, I warned you to have a wholesome
respect for this man at the very start, when we were looking at that
empty cartridge."

I could restrain my admiration of him no longer. "Guy," I exclaimed,
heartily, astounded by what I had seen, "you--you are a wonder!"

"No," he laughed, "not wonderful, Tom,--only very ordinary. I've had a
chance to learn some things abroad, fortunately. I've taken the time to
show you all this because I want you to appreciate what it is we are up
against in this case of Violet Winslow. You can understand now why I
was so particular about instructing Warrington not to let her go
anywhere unattended by friends. There's nothing inherently impossible
in these poisoned needle stories--given the right conjunction of
circumstances. What we have to guard against principally is letting her
get into any situation where the circumstances make such a thing
possible. I've almost a notion to let the New York end of this case go
altogether for a while and take a run up to Tuxedo to warn her and Mrs.
de Lancey personally. Still, I think I put it strongly enough with
Warrington so that--"

Our telephone tinkled insistently.

"Hello," answered Garrick. "Yes, this is Garrick. Who is this?
Warrington? In Tuxedo? Why, my dear boy, you needn't have gone
personally. Are you sure you're strong enough for such exertion?
What--what's that? Warrington--it--it isn't--not to New York?"

Garrick's face was actually pale as he fairly started back from the
telephone and caught my eye.

"Tom," he exclaimed huskily to me, "Violet Winslow left for New York on
the early train this morning!"

I felt my heart skip a beat, then pound away like a sledge-hammer at my
ribs as the terrible possibilities of the situation were seared into my
brain.

"Yes, Warrington--a letter to her? Read it--quick," I heard Garrick's
tense voice repeating. "I see. Her maid Lucille was taken very ill a
few days ago and she allowed her to go to her brother who lives on
Ninth Street. I understand. Now--the letter."

I could not hear what was said over the telephone, but later Garrick
repeated it to me and I afterwards saw the letter itself which I may as
well reproduce here. It said:

"Since I left you, mademoiselle, I am very ill here at the home of my
brother. I have a nice room in the back of the house on the first floor
and now that I am getting better I can sit up and look out of the
window.

"I am very ill yet, but the worst is past and some time when you are in
New York I wish I could see you. You have always been so good to me,
mademoiselle, that I hope I may soon be back again, if you have not a
maid better than your poor Lucille.

"Your faithful servant,

"LUCILLE DE VEAU."

"And she's already in the city?" asked Garrick of Warrington as he
finished reading the letter. "Mrs. de Lancey has gone with her--to do
some shopping. I see. That will take all day, she said? She is going to
call on Lucille--to-night--that's what she told her new maid there?
To-night? That's all right, my boy. I just wanted to be sure. Don't
worry. We'll look out for her here, all right. Now, Warrington, you
just keep perfectly quiet. No relapses, you know, old fellow. We can
take care of everything. I'm glad you told me. Good-bye."

Garrick had finished up his conversation with Warrington in a confident
and reassuring tone, quite the opposite to that with which he had
started and even more in contrast with the expression on his face as he
talked.

"I didn't want to alarm the boy unnecessarily," he explained to me, as
he hung up the receiver. "I could tell that he was very weak yet and
that the trip up to Tuxedo had almost done him up. It seems that she
thought a good deal of Lucille--there's the address--99 Ninth. You can
never tell about these maids, though. Lucille may be all right--or the
other maid may be all bad, or vice versa. There's no telling. The worst
of it is that she and her aunt are somewhere in the city, perhaps
shopping. It only needs that they become separated for something,
anything, to happen. There's been no time to warn her, either, and
she's just as likely to visit that Lucille to-night alone as not.
Gad--I'm glad I didn't fly off up there to Tuxedo, after all. She'll
need someone here to protect her."

Garrick was considering hastily what was to be done. Quickly he mapped
out his course of action.

"Come, Tom," he said hurriedly to me, as he wrapped up a little cedar
box which he took from the cabinet where he kept the endormeur outfit.
"Come--let's investigate that Ninth Street address while we have time."




CHAPTER XVII

THE NEWSPAPER FAKE


Within a few minutes we were sauntering with enforced leisure along
Ninth Street, in a rather sordid part, inhabited largely, I made out,
by a slightly better class of foreigners than some other sections of
the West Side.

As we walked along, I felt Garrick tugging at my arm.

"Slow up a bit," he whispered under his breath. "There's the house
which was mentioned in the maid's note."

It was an old three-story brownstone building with an entrance two or
three steps up from the sidewalk level. Once, no doubt, it had housed
people of some means, but the change in the character of the
neighbourhood with shifting population had evidently brought it to the
low estate where it now sheltered one family on each floor, if not
more. At least that was the general impression one got from a glance at
the cheapened air of the block.

Garrick passed the house so as not to attract any attention, and a
little further on paused before an apartment house, not of the modern
elevator construction, but still of quiet and decent appearance. At
least there were no children spilling out from its steps into the
street, in imminent danger of their young lives from every passing
automobile, as there were in the tenements of the block below.

He entered the front door which happened to be unlatched and we had no
trouble in mounting the stairs to the roof.

What he intended doing I had no idea yet, but he went ahead with
assurance and I followed, equally confident, for he must have had
adventures something like this before. On the roof, a clothesline,
which he commandeered and tied about a chimney, served to let him down
the few feet from the higher apartment roof to that of the dwelling
house next to it, one of the row in which number 99 was situated.

Quickly he tiptoed over to the chimney of the brownstone house a few
doors down and, as he did so, I saw him take from his pocket the cedar
box. A string tied to a weight told him which of the flues reached down
to the room on the first floor, back.

That determined, he let the little cedar box fastened to an entwined
pair of wires down the flue. He then ran the wires back across the roof
to the apartment, up, and into a little storm shed at the top of the
last flight of stairs which led from the upper hall to the roof.

"There is nothing more that we can do here just yet," he remarked after
he had hauled himself back to me on the higher roof. "We are lucky not
to have been disturbed, but if we stay here we are likely to be
observed."

Cautiously we retraced our steps and were again on the street without
having alarmed any of the tenants of the flat through which we had
gained access to the roofs.

It was now the forenoon and, although Garrick instituted a search in
every place that he could think of where Mrs. de Laacey and Violet
Winslow might go, including the homes of those of their friends whose
names we could learn, it was without result. I don't think there can be
many searches more hopeless than to try to find someone in New York
when one has no idea where to look. Only chance could possibly have
thrown them in our way and chance did not favour us.

There was nothing to do but wait for the time when Miss Winslow might,
of her own accord, turn up to visit her former maid for whom she
apparently had a high regard.

Inquiries as to the antecedents of Lucille De Veau were decidedly
unsatisfactory, not that they gave her a bad character, but because
there simply seemed to be nothing that we could find out. The maid
seemed to be absolutely unknown. Her brother was a waiter, though where
he worked we could not find out, for he seemed to be one of those who
are constantly shifting their positions.

Garrick had notified Dillon of what he had discovered, in a general
way, and had asked him to detail some men to conduct the search
secretly for Miss Winslow and her aunt, but without any better results
than we had obtained. Apparently the department stores had swallowed
them up for the time being and we could only wait impatiently, trusting
that all would turn out right in the end. Still, I could not help
having some forebodings in the matter.

It was in the middle of the afternoon that we had gone downtown to
Garrick's office, after stopping to secure the letter from the safe in
the uptown hotel where it had been deposited for security during the
night and placing it in a safety deposit vault where Garrick kept some
of his own valuables. Garrick had selected his office as a vantage
point to which any news of Miss Winslow and her aunt might be sent by
those whom we had out searching. No word came, however, and the hours
of suspense seemed to drag interminably.

"You're pretty well acquainted on the STAR?" Garrick asked me at last,
after we had been sitting in a sort of mournful silence wondering
whether those on the other side might not be stealing a march on us.

"Why, yes, I know several people there," I replied. "Why do you ask?"

"I was just thinking of a possible plan of campaign that might be
mapped out to bring these people from under cover," he remarked
thoughtfully. "Do you think you could carry part of it through?"

I said I would try and Garrick proceeded to unfold a scheme which he
had been revolving all day. It consisted of as ingenious a "plant" as I
could well imagine.

"You see," he outlined, "if you could go over to the Star office and
get them to run off a few copies of the paper, after they are through
with the regular editions, I believe we can get the Chief started and
then all we should have to do would be to follow him up--or someone who
would lead us to him."

The "plant," in short, consisted in writing a long and circumstantial
story of the discovery of new evidence against the ladies' poolroom,
which so far had been scarcely mentioned in the case. As Garrick laid
it out, the story was to tell of a young gambler who was said to be in
touch with the district attorney, in preference to saying the police.

In fact, his idea was to write up the whole gambling situation as we
knew it on lines that he suggested. Then a "fake" edition of the paper
was to be run off, bearing our story on the front page. Only a few
copies were to be printed, and they were to be delivered to us. The
thing had been done before by detectives, I knew, and in this case
Warrington was to foot the bill, which might prove to be considerable.

At least it offered me some outlet for my energies during the rest of
the afternoon when the failure to receive any reports about the two
women whom we were seeking began to wear on my nerves.

It took some time to arrange the thing with those in authority on the
Star, but at last that was done and I hastened back to Garrick at his
office to tell him that all that remained to do was the actual writing
of the story.

Garrick had just finished testing an arrangement in a large case,
almost the size of a suitcase, and had stood it in a corner, ready to
be picked up and carried off the instant there was any need for it.
There was still no word of Miss Winslow and Mrs. de Lancey and it began
to look as if we should not hear from them until Violet Winslow turned
up on her visit to her former maid.

Together we plunged into the preparation of the story, the writing of
which fell to me while Garrick now and then threw in a suggestion or a
word of criticism to make it sound stronger for his purpose. Thus the
rest of the afternoon passed in getting the thing down "pat."

I flatter myself that it was not such a bad piece of work when we got
through with it. By dint of using such expressions as "It is said," "It
is rumoured," "The report about the Criminal Courts Building is," "An
informant high in the police department," and crediting much to a
mythical "gambler who is operating quietly uptown," we managed to tell
some amazing facts.

The fake story began:

"Since the raid by the police on the luxurious gambling house in
Forty-eighth Street, a remarkable new phase of sporting life has been
unfolded to the District Attorney, who is quietly gathering evidence
against another place situated in the same district.

"A former gambler who frequented the raided place has put many
incriminating facts about the second place in the hands of the
authorities who are contemplating an exposure that will stir even New
York, accustomed as it is to such startling revelations. It involves
one of the cleverest and most astute criminals who ever operated in
this city.

"This place, which is under observation, is one which has brought
tragedy to many. Young women attracted by the treacherous lure of the
spinning roulette wheel or the fascination of the shuffle of cards have
squandered away their own and their husband's money with often tragic
results, and many of them have gone even further into the moral
quagmire in the hope of earning enough money to pay their losses and
keep from their families the knowledge of their gambling.

"This situation, one of the high lights in the city of lights and
shadows, has been evolved, according to the official informant, through
the countless number of gambling resorts that have gained existence in
the most fashionable parts of the city.

"The record of crime of the clever and astute individual already
mentioned is being minutely investigated, and, it is said, shows some
of the most astounding facts. It runs even to murder, which was
accomplished in getting rid of an informer recently in the pay of the
police.

"Against those conducting the crusade every engine of the underworld
has been used. The fight has been carried on bitterly, and within less
than twenty-four hours arrests are promised as a result of confessions
already in the hands of the authorities and being secretly and widely
investigated by them before the final blow is delivered simultaneously,
both in the city and in a town up-state where the criminal believes
himself unknown and secure."

There was more of the stuff, which I do not quote, describing the
situation in detail and in general terms which could all have only one
meaning to a person acquainted with the particular case with which we
were dealing. It threw a scare, in type, as hard as could be done. I
fancied that when it was read by the proper person he would be amazed
that so much had, apparently, become known to the newspapers, and would
begin to wonder how much more was known that was not printed.

"That ought to make someone sit up and take notice," remarked Garrick
with some satisfaction, as he corrected the typewritten copy late in
the afternoon. "The printing of that will take some time and I don't
suppose we shall get copies until pretty late. You can take it over to
the Star, Tom, and complete the arrangements. I have a little more work
to do before we go up there on Ninth Street. Suppose you meet me at
eight in Washington Square, near the Arch?"




CHAPTER XVIII

THE VOCAPHONE


Promptly to the dot I met Garrick at the appointed place. Not a word so
far had been heard, either from Violet Winslow or Mrs. de Lancey. There
was one thing encouraging about it, however. If they had become
separated while shopping, as sometimes happens, we should have been
likely to hear of it, at least from her aunt.

Garrick was tugging the heavy suitcase which I had seen standing ready
down in his office during the afternoon, as well as a small package
wrapped up in paper.

"Let me carry that suitcase," I volunteered.

We trudged along across the park, my load getting heavier at every step.

"I'm not surprised at your being winded," I panted, soon finding myself
in the same condition. "What's in this--lead?"

"Something that we may need or may not," Garrick answered
enigmatically, as we stopped in the shadow to rest.

He carefully took an automatic revolver from an inside pocket and
stowed it where it would be handy, in his coat.

We resumed our walk and at last had come nearly up to the house on the
first floor of which the maid Lucille was. The suitcase was engaging
all my attention, as I shifted it from one hand to the other. Not so
Garrick, however. He was looking keenly about us.

"Gad, I must be seeing things to-night!" he exclaimed, his eyes fixed
on a figure slouching along, his hat pulled down over his eyes, passing
just about opposite us on the other side of the street. I looked also
in the gathering dusk. The figure had something indefinably familiar
about it, but a moment later it was gone, having turned the corner.

Garrick shook his head. "No," he said half to himself, "it couldn't
have been. Don't stop, Tom. We mustn't do anything to rouse suspicion,
now."

We came a moment later to the flat-house through the hall of which we
had reached the roof that morning and in the excitement of the
adventure I forgot, for the time, the mysterious figure across the
street, which had attracted Garrick's attention.

Again, we managed to elude the tenants, though it was harder in the
early evening than it had been in the daytime. However, we reached the
roof apparently unobserved. There at least, now that it was dark, we
felt comparatively safe. No one was likely to disturb us there,
provided we made no noise.

Unwrapping the smaller, paper-covered package, Garrick quickly attached
the wires, as he had left them, to another cedar box, like that which
he had already let down the chimney up the street.

I now had a chance to examine it more closely under the light of
Garrick's little electric bull's-eye. I was surprised to find that it
resembled one of the instruments we had used down in the room in the
Old Tavern.

It was oblong, with a sort of black disc fixed to the top. In the face
of the box, just as in the other we had used, were two little square
holes, with sides also of cedar, converging inward, making a pair of
little quadrangular pyramidal holes which seemed to end in a small
round black circle in the interior, small end.

I said nothing, but I could see that it was a new form, to all intents
and purposes, of the detectaphone which we had already used.

The minutes that followed seemed like hours, as we waited, not daring
to talk lest we should attract attention.

I wondered whether Miss Winslow would come after all, or, if she did,
whether she would come alone.

"You're early," said a voice, softly, near us, of a sudden.

I leaped to my feet, prepared to meet anything, man or devil. Garrick
seized me and pulled me down, a strong hint to be quiet. Too surprised
to remonstrate, since nothing happened, I waited, breathless.

"Yes, but that is better than to be too late. Besides, we've got to
watch that Garrick," said another voice. "He might be around."

Garrick chuckled.

I had noticed a peculiar metallic ring in the voices.

"Where are they?" I whispered, "On the landing below?"

Garrick laughed outright, not boisterously, but still in a way which to
me was amazing in its bravado, if the tenants were really so near.

"What's this?" I asked.

"Don't you recognize it?" he answered.

"Yes," I said doubtfully. "I suppose it's like that thing we used down
at the Old Tavern."

"Only more so," nodded Garrick, aloud, yet careful not to raise his
voice, as before, so as not to disturb the flat dwellers below us. "A
vocaphone."

"A vocaphone?" I repeated.

"Yes, the little box that hears and talks," he explained. "It does more
than the detectaphone. It talks right out, you know, and it works both
ways."

I began to understand his scheme.

"Those square holes in the face of it are just like the other
instrument we used," Garrick went on. "They act like little megaphones
to that receiver inside, you know,--magnify the sound and throw it out
so that we can listen up here just as well, perhaps better than if we
were down there in the room with them."

They were down there in the back room, Lucille and a man.

"Have you heard from her?" asked the man's voice, one that I did not
recognise.

"Non,--but she will come. Voila, but she thought the world of her
Lucille, she did. She will come."

"How do you know?"

"Because--I know."

"Oh, you women!"

"Oh, you men!"

It was evident that the two had a certain regard for each other, a sort
of wild, animal affection, above, below, beyond, without the law. They
seemed at least to understand each other.

Who the man was I could not guess. It was a voice that sounded
familiar, yet I could not place it.

"She will come to see her Lucille," repeated the woman. "But you must
not be seen."

"No--by no means."

The voice of the man was not that of a foreigner.

"Here, Lucille, take this. Only get her interested--I will do the
rest--and the money is yours. See--you crush it in the
handkerchief--so. Be careful--you WILL crush it before you want to use
it. There. Under her nose, you know. I shall be there in a moment and
finish the work. That is all you need do--with the handkerchief."

Garrick made a motion, as if to turn a switch in the little vocaphone,
and rested his finger on it.

"I could make those two jump out of the window with fright and
surprise," he said to me, still fingering the switch impatiently. "You
see, it works the other way, too, as I told you, if I choose to throw
this switch. Suppose I should shout out, and they should hear,
apparently coming from the fireplace, 'You are discovered. Thank you
for telling me all your plans, but I am prepared for them already.'
What do you suppose they would--"

Garrick stopped short.

From the vocaphone had come a sound like the ringing of a bell.

"Sh!" whispered Lucille hoarsely. "Here she comes now. Didn't I tell
you? Into the next room!"

A moment later came a knock at a door and Lucille's silken rustle as
she hurried to open it.

"How do you do, Lucille?" we heard a sweetly tremulous voice repeated
by the faithful little vocaphone.

"Comment vous portez-vous, Mademoiselle?"

"Tres bien."

"Mademoiselle honours her poor Lucille beyond her dreams. Will you not
be seated here in this easy chair?"

"My God!" exclaimed Garrick, starting back from the vocaphone. "She is
there alone. Mrs. de Lancey is not with her. Oh, if we could only have
prevented this!"

I had recognized, too, even in the mechanical reproduction, the voice
of Violet Winslow. It came as a shock. Even though I had been expecting
some such thing for hours, still the reality meant just as much,
perhaps more.

Independent, self-reliant, Violet Winslow had gone alone on an act of
mercy and charity, and it had taken her into a situation full of danger
with her faithless maid.

At once I was alive to the situation. All the stories of kidnappings
and white slavery that I had ever read rioted through my head. I felt
like calling out a warning. Garrick had his finger on the switch.

"Since I have been ill, Mademoiselle, I have been doing some
embroidery--handkerchiefs--are they not pretty?"

It was coming. There was not time for an instant's delay now.

Garrick quickly depressed the switch.

Clear as a bell his voice rang out.

"Miss Winslow--this is Garrick. Don't let her get that handkerchief
under your nose. Out of the door--quick. Run! Call for help! I shall be
with you in a minute!"

A little cry came out of the machine.

There was a moment of startled surprise in the room below. Then
followed a mocking laugh.

"Ha! Ha! I thought you'd pull something like that, Garrick. I don't
know where you are, but it makes no difference. There are many ways of
getting out of this place and at one of them I hare a high-powered car.
Violet--will go--quietly--" there were sounds of a struggle--"after the
needle--"

A scream had followed immediately after a sound of shivering glass
through the vocaphone. It was not Violet Winslow's scream, either.

"Like hell, she'll go," shouted a wildly familiar voice.

There was a gruff oath.

We stayed to hear no more. Garrick had already picked up the heavy
suitcase and was running down the steps two at a time, with myself hard
after him.

Without waiting to ring the bell at 99, he dashed the suitcase through
the plate glass of the front door, reached in and turned the lock. We
hurried into the back room.

Violet was lying across a divan and bending over her was Warrington.

"She--she's unconscious," he gasped, weak with the exertion of his
forcible entrance into the place and carrying from the floor to the
divan the lovely burden which he had found in the room. "They--they
fled--two of them--the maid, Lucille--and a man I could not see."

Down the street we heard a car dashing away to the sound of its
changing gears.

"She's--not--dying--is she, Garrick?" he panted bending closer over her.

Garrick bent over, too, felt the fluttering pulse, looked into her
dilated eyes.

I saw him drop quickly on his knees beside the unconscious girl. He
tore open the heavy suitcase and a moment later he had taken from it a
sort of cap, at the end of a rubber tube, and had fastened it carefully
over her beautiful, but now pale, face.

"Pump!" Garrick muttered to me, quickly showing me what to do.

I did, furiously.

"Where did you come from?" he asked of Warrington. "I thought I saw
someone across the street who looked like you as we came along, but you
didn't recognise us and in a moment you were gone. Keep on with that
pulmotor, Tom. Thank heaven I came prepared with it!"

Eagerly I continued to supply oxygen to the girl on the divan before us.

Garrick had stooped down and picked up both the handkerchief with its
crushed bits of the kelene tube and near it a shattered glass
hypodermic.

"Oh, I got thinking about things, up there at Mead's," blurted out
Warrington, "and I couldn't stand it. I should have gone crazy. While
the doctor was out I managed to slip away and take a train to the city.
I knew this address from the letter. I determined to stay around all
night, if necessary. She got in before I could get to her, but I rang
the bell and managed to get my foot in the door a minute later. I heard
the struggle. Where were you? I heard your voice in here but you came
through the front door."

Garrick did not take time to explain. He was too busy over Violet
Winslow.

A feeble moan and a flutter of the eyelids told that she was coming out
from the effects of the anaesthetic and the drug.

"Mortimer--Mortimer!" she moaned, half conscious. "Don't let them take
me. Oh where is--"

Warrington leaned over, as Garrick removed the cap of the pulmotor, and
gently raised her head on his arm.

"It's all right--Violet," he whispered, his face close to hers as his
warm breath fanned her now flushed and fevered cheek.

She opened her eyes and vaguely understood as the mist cleared from her
brain.

Instinctively she clung to him as he pressed his lips lightly on her
forehead, in a long passionate caress.

"Get a cab, Tom," said Garrick turning his back suddenly on them and
placing his hand on my shoulder as he edged me toward the hall. "It's
too late to pursue that fellow, now. He's slipped through our fingers
again--confound him!"




CHAPTER XIX

THE EAVESDROPPER AGAIN


It took our combined efforts now to take care not only of Violet
Winslow but Warrington himself, who was on the verge of collapse after
his heroic rescue of her.

I found the cab and in perhaps half an hour Miss Winslow was so far
recovered that she could be taken to the hotel where she and her aunt
had engaged rooms for the night.

We drew up at an unfrequented side carriage entrance of the hotel in
order to avoid the eyes of the curious and Warrington jumped out to
assist Violet. The strain had told on him and in spite of his desire to
take care of her, he was glad to let Garrick guide him to the elevator,
while I took Miss Winslow's arm to assist her.

Our first object had been to get our two invalids where they could have
quiet and so regain their strength and we rode up in the elevator,
unannounced, to the suite of Violet and her aunt.

"For heaven's sake--Violet--what's all this?" exclaimed Mrs. de Lancey
as we four entered the room.

It was the first time we had seen the redoubtable Aunt Emma. She was a
large woman, well past middle age, and must have been handsome, rather
than pretty, when she was younger. Everything about Mrs. de Lancey was
correct, absolutely correct. Her dress looked like a form into which
she had been poured, every line and curve being just as it should be,
having "set" as if she had been made of reinforced concrete. In short,
she was a woman of "force."

An incursion such as we made seemed to pain her correct soul acutely.
And yet, I fancied that underneath the marble exterior there was a
heart and that secretly she was both proud and jealous of her dainty
niece.

Violet sank into a chair and Garrick deposited Warrington, thoroughly
exhausted, on a couch.

Mrs. de Lancey looked sternly at Warrington, as though in some way he
might be responsible. I could not help feeling that she had a peculiar
sense of conscientiousness about him, that she was just a bit more
strict in gauging him than she would have been if he had not been the
wealthy young Mr. Warrington whom scores and hundreds of mothers and
guardians in society would have welcomed for the sake of marriageable
daughters no matter how black and glaring his faults. I was glad to see
the way Warrington took it. He seemed to want to rest not on the merits
of the Warrington blood nor the Warrington gold, but on plain Mortimer
Warrington himself.

"What HAS happened, Violet?" repeated Mrs. de Lancey.

Violet had, woman-like, in spite of her condition caught the stern look
that her aunt had shot at Warrington.

"Nothing, now," she replied with a note of defiance. "Lucille--seems to
have been a--a bad woman--friendly with bad men. Mr. Garrick overheard
a plot to carry me off and telephoned Mortimer. Fortunately when
Mortimer went up home to warn us, he found the letter and knew where I
was going to-night. Ill as he was, he came all the way to the city,
followed me into that house, saved me--even before Mr. Garrick could
get there."

Violet's duenna was considerably mollified, though she tried hard not
to admit it. Garrick seized the opportunity and poured forth a brief
but connected story of what had happened.

"Well," exclaimed Mrs. de Lancey as he finished, "you children ought to
be very thankful it isn't worse. Violet, I think I'll call up the house
physician. You certainly need a doctor. And as for you, Mortimer,--you
can't go to your apartment. Violet tells me it is all burned out.
There's an empty suite across the hall. I'll telephone the room clerk
and engage it for you. And you need a doctor, too. Now--there's going
to be no more foolishness. You're both going to stay right here in this
hotel until you're all right. Your mother and I were great friends,
Mortimer, when we were girls. I--you must let me PLAY mother--for her
sake."

I had been right about Mrs. de Lancey. Her voice softened and I saw a
catch in Warrington's throat, too, at the mention of the mother he
remembered only hazily as a small boy.

Violet and Warrington exchanged glances. I fancied the wireless said,
"We've won the old lady over, at last," for Warrington continued to
look at her, while she blushed a bit, then dropped her eyes to hide a
happy tear.

Mrs. de Lancey was bustling about and I felt sure that in another
minute every available bellhop in the hotel would be at work. As
Warrington might have said in his slang, "Action is her middle name."

Garrick rose and bade our two patients a hasty good-night, tactfully
forgetting to be offended by their lack of interest now in anything
except each other.

"I doubt if they get much chance to be alone--not with that woman
mothering them," he smiled to me, drawing me toward the door. "Don't
let's spoil this chance."

Mrs. de Lancey was busy in the next room, as we stopped to say good-bye
to her.

"I--I can't talk to you--now, Mr. Garrick," she cried, with a sudden,
unwonted show of emotion, taking both his hands in hers. "You--you've
saved my girl--there--there's nothing in this world you could have done
for me--greater."

"Mrs. de Lancey," replied Garrick, deftly changing the subject,
"there's just one thing. I'm afraid you are--have been, I mean,--a
little hard on Mr. Warrington. He isn't what you think--"

"Mr. Garrick," she returned, in a sudden burst of confidence, "I'm
afraid you, too, misunderstand me. I am not hard on the boy. But,
remember. I knew his mother and father--intimately. Think of it,
sir--the responsibilities that rest on that young man. Do you wonder
that I--I want him better than others? Don't you see--that is why I
want to hold him up to the highest standard. If Violet--marries him,"
she seemed to choke over the word,--"they must meet tests that ordinary
people never know. Don't you understand? I've seen other young men and
other young women in our circle--they were our babies once--I've seen
them--go down. But I--I am proud. The Winslows, yes, and the
Warringtons, they,--they SHAN'T go down--not while I have an ounce of
strength or a grain of sanity. Nothing--nothing but the best that is in
us--counts."

I think Mrs. de Lancey and Garrick understood each other perfectly
after that. He said nothing, in fact did not need to say anything, for
he looked it.

"I feel that I can safely resign my job as guardian," was all he
remarked, finally. "Neither of them could be in better hands. Only,
keep that boy quiet a few days. You can do it better than I can--you
and Miss Winslow. Trust me to do the rest."

A moment later we were passing out through the hotel lobby, as Garrick
glanced at his watch.

"A wonderful woman, after all," he mused, in the manner of one who
revises an estimate formed hastily on someone else's hearsay. "Well,
it's too late to do anything more to-night. I suppose those papers are
printed down at the Star. We'll stop and get them in the morning. Did
you recognise the voice over the vocaphone?"

"I can't say I did," I confessed.

"Perhaps you aren't used to it and things sound too metallic to you.
But I did. It was the Chief."

"I suspected as much," I replied. "Where do you suppose he went?"

Garrick shrugged his shoulders.

"I doubt whether we could find him in New York to-night," he answered,
slowly. "I think he must feel by this time that the town is getting too
hot for him."

There was nothing that I could say, and I played the part admirably.

"Come," he decided, as he turned from the hotel in the direction, now,
of our apartment. "Let's snatch a little rest. We'll need it to-morrow
for the final spurt."

Tired and exhausted though I was I cannot say that I slept. At least,
it may have been physical rest that I got. Certainly my mind never
stopped in its dream play, as the kaleidoscopic stream of events passed
before me, now in their true form, now in the fantastic shapes that
constitute one of the most interesting studies of the modern psychology.

I was glad when I heard Garrick stirring in his room in the early
daylight and heard him call out, "Are you awake, Tom? There are some
things I want to attend to, while you drop into the Star for those
papers. I'm afraid you'll have to breakfast alone. Meet me at my office
as soon as you can."

He was off a few minutes later, as fresh as though he had been on a
vacation instead of plunged into the fight of his life. I followed him,
more leisurely, and then rode down in the infernal jam in the subway to
execute his commission.

Then for an hour or two I fidgeted impatiently in his office waiting
for him, until finally he came downtown in the racing car which
Warrington had placed at his disposal.

He said nothing, but it was all the same to me. I had reached that
nervous state where I craved something doing, as a drug-fiend craves
the dope that sets his brain on fire again.

I did not ask where he was going, for I knew it intuitively, and it was
not long before we were again in the part of the city where the
gangster's garage was located.

We stopped and Garrick beckoned to an urchin, a couple of blocks below
the garage.

"Do you want to make a dollar, kid?" he asked, jingling four quarters
enticingly.

The boy's eyes never left the fist that held the tempting bait.
"Betcherlife," he answered.

"Well, then," instructed Garrick, "take these newspapers. I don't want
you to sell any of them on the street. But when you come to that garage
over there--see it?--I want you to yell, 'Extra--special extra! All
about the great gambling exposure. Warrants out!' Just go in there.
They'll buy, all right. And if you say a word about anyone giving you
these papers to sell--I'll chase you and get back this dollar to the
last cent. You'll go to the Gerry Society--get me?"

The boy did. The bait was as alluring as the threat terrible. After
Garrick had given him final instructions not to start with the papers
for at least five minutes, we slipped quietly around the next street
and came out near the Old Tavern, but not in front of it.

Garrick left the car--I had been riding almost on the mud guard--in
charge of Warrington's man, who was to appear to be tinkering with the
engine as an excuse for waiting there, and to keep an eye on anything
that happened down the street.

We made our way into our room at the Tavern with more than ordinary
caution, for fear that something might have been discovered.
Apparently, however, the discovery of one detectaphone had been enough
to disarm further suspicion, and the garage keeper had not thought it
necessary to examine the telephone wires to see whether they had been
tampered with in any way. The wire which he had thought led to the
warehouse had seemed quite sufficient to explain everything.

In the room which we had used so much, we found the other detectaphone
working splendidly. Garrick picked it up.

By the sound, evidently, someone in the garage was overhauling a car.
It may have been that they were fixing one up so that its rightful
owner would never recognize it, or they may have been getting ready to
take one out. There was no way of determining.

We could hear one of the workmen helping about the car, a man whom we
had listened to when the instrument first introduced us to the place.
The second machine, connected with the telephone, did not transmit
quite as clearly as the broken detective device had done, but it served
and, besides, we could both hear through this and could confirm
anything that might be indistinct to either of us alone.

"The Chief has gone up-state," remarked Garrick, piecing together the
conversation where we had broken into it.

"We had to hustle to make that boat," remarked a voice which I
recognised as that of one of the men.

"But she got off all right, didn't she?"

"Sure--he had the tickets and everything, and her baggage had already
gone aboard."

"That's Lucille, I suppose," supplied Garrick. "No doubt part of her
bribe for getting Miss Winslow into their power was free passage back
to France. We can't stop to take up her case, yet."

"My--but the Chief was mad," continued the voice of the man who must
have been not only a machinist but a chauffeur when occasion demanded.
"He had a package of letters. I don't know what they were--looked as if
they might be from some woman."

"What did he do with them?" asked the Boss in a tone that showed that
he knew something, at least, about them already.

"Why, he was so mad after that fellow Garrick and the other fellow beat
him out, that when we went down along West Street to the boat with that
other woman, he tore them up and threw them in the river."

"Did he say anything?"

"Why, I tell you he was mad. He tore 'em up and threw them in the
river. I think he said there wasn't a damn thing in 'em except a lot of
mush, anyhow."

An amused smile crossed Garrick's face as he added, parenthetically,
"Good-bye to Warrington's love letters that they took from his safe."

"At least there has been nothing they managed to get that night of the
fire that they have been able to use against Warrington," I remarked,
with satisfaction.

"Listen," cautioned Garrick. "What's that they are saying? Someone has
told the Boss--he's talking--that they can go over Dillon's head and
get back all the gambling paraphernalia? Well, I've been there, at the
raided place, to-day, and it doesn't look so. The stuff has all been
taken down to headquarters. Ah, so that is the game that is in the
wind, is it? Get it all back by a court order and open somewhere else.
Here's our boy."

The improvised newsboy had apparently stuck his head in the door as he
had been instructed, for we could hear them greet him with a growl,
until he yelled lustily, "Extry, special extry! All about the big
gambling exposure! Warrants out! Extry!"

"Hey, you kid," came a voice from the detectaphone, "let's see that
paper. What is it--the Star? Well, I'll be--! Read that. Someone's
snitched to the district attorney, I'll bet. That'll make the Chief
sore, all right--and he's 'way up in the country, too. I don't dare
wire it to him. No, someone'll have to take a copy of this paper up
there to him and tip him off. He'll be redheaded if he doesn't know
about it. He was the last time anything happened. Hurry up. Finish with
this car. I'll take it myself."

Garrick laughed, almost gleefully.

"The plant has begun to work," he cried. "We'll wait here until just
before he's ready to start. Three of us around our car on the street
are too many. He must be getting ready for a long run."

"How much gas is there in this tank?" the gruff voice of the Boss
demanded. "You dummy--not two gallons! No, you finish what you're
doing. I'll fill it myself. There isn't any time for fooling now."

There was the steady trickle of the stream of gasoline as he drew it.

"Any extra tires? What! Not a new shoe in the place? Give me a couple
of the best of those old ones. Never mind. Here are two over by the
telephone. Say, what the devil is this wire back here--cut in on the
telephone wire? Well,--rip it out! That's some more of that fellow
Garrick's work. We got rid of one thing the other night. Well, thank
heaven, I didn't have any telephone calls to-day. While I'm gone, you
go over this place thoroughly. God knows how many other things he may
have put in here."

"Confound it!" muttered Garrick, as a pair of pliers made our second
detectaphone die with an expiring gasp in the middle of a sentence of
profanity.

"Come on, Tom," he shouted.

There was no use now in remaining any longer in the room. Gathering up
the receiving apparatus, Garrick quickly carried it down and tossed it
into the waiting car around the corner. Then he sent Warrington's man
to hang around, up the street, and watch what was going on at the
garage.

Garrick was to drive the car himself, and we were going to leave
Warrington's man behind. We could tell by the actions of the man as he
stood down the street that something was taking place at the garage.

We could hear a horn blow, and I knew that the doors had opened and a
big car had been backed out, slowly. Our own engine was running
perfectly in spite of the seeming trouble with which we had covered up
our delay. Garrick jumped in at the wheel, and I followed. The man on
the corner was signalling that the car was going in the opposite
direction. We leaped ahead.

As the big car ahead slipped along eastward, we followed at such a
distance as not to attract attention. It was easy enough to do that,
but not so easy to avoid getting tied up among the trucks laden with
foodstuffs of every description which blocked the streets over in this
part of town.

Where the car ahead was bound, we did not know, but I could see that
the driver was a stocky fellow, who slouched down into his seat, and
handled his car almost as if it had been a mere toy. It was, I felt
positive, the man whom McBirney had reported one night about the
neighbourhood of Longacre Square in the car which had once been
Warrington's. This, at least, was a different car, I knew. Now I
realised the wisdom of allowing this man, whom they called the Boss, to
go free. Under the influence of Garrick's "plant," he was to lead us to
the right trail to the Chief.

It was easier now to follow the car since it had worked its way into
lower Fifth Avenue. On uptown it went. We hung on doggedly in the mass
of traffic going north at this congested hour.

At last it turned into Forty-seventh Street. It was stopping at the
ladies' gambling joint, apparently to confirm the news. I had thought
that the place was closed, until the present trouble blew over, but it
seemed that there must be someone there. The Boss was evidently well
known, for he was immediately admitted.

Garrick did not stop. He kept on around the corner to the raided
poolroom on the next street. Dillon's man, who had been stationed there
to watch the place, bowed and admitted him.

"I'm going to throw it into him good, this time," remarked Garrick, as
he entered. "I've been planning this stunt for an emergency--and it's
here. Now for the big scare!"




CHAPTER XX

THE SPEAKING ARC


"Looks pretty deserted here," remarked Garrick to Dillon's man, who had
accompanied us from the door into the now deserted gambling den.

"Yes," he grinned, "there's not much use in keeping me here since they
took all the stuff to headquarters. Now and then one of the old
rounders who has been out of town and hasn't heard of the raid comes
in. You should see their faces change when they catch sight of my
uniform. They never stop to ask questions," he chuckled. "They just
beat it."

I was wondering how the police regarded Garrick's part in the matter,
and while Garrick was busy I asked, "Have you seen Inspector Herman
lately?"

The man laughed.

"What's the matter?" I asked, "Is he sore at having the raid pulled off
over his head?"

"Sore?" the roundsman repeated, "Oh, not a bit, not a bit. He enjoyed
it. It gave him so much credit," the man added sarcastically,
"especially after he fell down in getting the evidence against that
other place around the corner."

"Was that his case, too?" I asked.

"Sure," replied the policeman. "Didn't you know that? That Rena Taylor
was working under his orders when she was killed. They tell me at
headquarters he's working overtime on the case and other things
connected with it. He hasn't said much, but there's someone he is
after--I know. Mark my words. Herman is always most dangerous when he's
quiet. The other day he was in here, said there was a man who used to
be seen here a good deal in the palmy days, who had disappeared. I
don't know who he was, but Herman asked me to keep a particular lookout
to see if he came back for any purpose. There's someone he suspects,
all right."

I wondered why the man told me. He must have seen, by the look on my
face, that I was thinking that.

"I wouldn't tell it to everybody," he added confidentially, "only, most
of us don't like Herman any too well. He's always trying to hog it
all--gets all the credit if we pick up a clew, and,--well, most of us
wouldn't be exactly disappointed to see Mr. Garrick succeed--that's
all."

Garrick was calling from the back room to me, and I excused myself,
while the man went back to his post at the front door. Garrick
carefully closed the door into the room.

While I had been busy getting the copies of the faked edition of the
Star, which had so alarmed the owner of the garage and had set things
moving rapidly, Garrick had also been busy, in another direction. He
had explored not only the raided gambling den, but the little back yard
which ran all the way to an extension on the rear of the house in the
next street, in which was situated the woman's poolroom.

He had explored, also, the caved-in tunnel enough to make absolutely
certain that his suspicions had been correct in the first place, and
that it ran to this other joint, from which the gamblers had made their
escape. That had satisfied him, however, and he had not unearthed the
remains of the tunnel or taken any action in the matter yet. Something
else appeared to interest him much more at the present moment.

"I found," he said when he was sure that we were alone, "that the feed
wire of the arc light that burns all the time in that main room over
there in the place on Forty-seventh Street--you recall it?--runs in
through the back of the house."

He was examining two wires which, from his manner, I inferred were
attached to this feed wire, leading to it from the room in which we now
were. What the purpose of the connection was I had no idea. Perhaps, I
thought, it was designed to get new evidence against the place, though
I could not guess how it was to be done. So far, except for what we had
seen on our one visit, there had appeared to be no real evidence
against the place, except, possibly, that which had died with the
unfortunate Rena Taylor.

"What's that?" I asked, as Garrick produced a package from a closet
where he had left it, earlier in the day.

I saw, after he had unwrapped it, that it was a very powerful
microphone and a couple of storage cells. He attached it to the wire
leading out to the electric light feed wire.

"I had provided it to be used in an emergency," he replied. "I think
the time has come sooner than I anticipated."

I watched him curiously, wondering what it would be that would come
next.

There followed a most amazing series of groanings and mutterings from
Garrick. I could not imagine what he was up to. The whole proceeding
seemed so insane that, for the moment, it left me nonplussed and
speechless.

Garrick caught the puzzled look on my face.

"What's the matter?" he laughed heartily, cutting out the microphone
momentarily and seeming to enjoy the joke to the utmost.

"Would you prefer to be sent to a State or a private institution?" I
rasped, testily. "What insanity is all this? It sounds like the
fee-faw-fum and mummery of a voodoo man."

"Come, now, Tom," he rejoined, argumentatively. "You know as well as I
do what sort of people those gamblers are--superstitious as the deuce.
I did this once before to-day. This is a good time to do it again,
before they persuade themselves that there is nothing in that story
which we printed in the Star. That fellow is in there now, probably in
that room where we were, and it is possible that they may reassure him
and settle his fears. Now, just suppose a murder had been committed in
a room, and you knew it, and heard groanings and mutterings--from
nowhere, just in the air, about you, overhead--what would you do, if
you were inclined to be superstitious?"

Before I could answer, he had resumed the antics which before I had
found so inexplicable.

"Cut out and run, I suppose," I replied. "But what has that to do with
the case? The groanings are here--not there. You haven't been able to
get in over there to attach anything, have you? What do you mean?"

"No," he admitted, "but did you ever hear what you could do with a
microphone, a rheostat, and a small transformer coil if you attached
them properly to a direct-current electric lighting circuit? No? Well,
an amateur with a little knowledge of electricity could do it. The
thing is easily constructed, and the result is a most complicated
matter."

"Well?" I queried, endeavouring to follow him.

"The electric arc," he continued, "isn't always just a silent electric
light. You know that. You've heard them make noises. Under the right
conditions such a light can be made to talk--the 'speaking arc,' as
Professor Duddell calls it. In other words, an arc light can be made to
act as a telephone receiver."

I could hardly believe the thing possible, but Garrick went on
explaining.

"You might call it the arcophone, I suppose. The scientific fact of the
matter is that the arc is sensitive to very small variations of the
current. These variations may run over a wide range of frequency. That
suggested to Duddell that a direct-current arc might be used as a
telephone receiver. All that you need is to add a microphone current to
the main arc current. The arc reproduces sounds and speech distinctly,
loud enough, even, to be heard several feet away from the light."

He had cut out the microphone again while he was talking to me. He
switched it in again with the words, "Now, get ready, Tom. Just one
more; then we must hurry around in that car of ours and watch the fun."

This time he was talking into the microphone. In a most solemn,
sepulchral voice he repeated, "Let the slayer of Rena Taylor beware.
She will be avenged! Beware! It will be a life for a life!"

Three times he repeated it, to make sure that it would carry. Then,
grabbing up his hat and coat, he dashed out of the room, past the
surprised policeman at the door, and took the steps in front of the
house almost at a bound.

We hardly had time to enter our own car and reach the corner of
Forty-seventh Street, when the big black automobile which we had
followed uptown shot by almost before the traffic man at the crossing
could signal a clear road.

"We must hang onto him!" cried Garrick, turning to follow. "Did you
catch a glimpse of his face? It's our man, the go-between, the keeper
of the garage whom they call the Boss. He was as pale as if he had seen
a ghost. I guess he did think he heard one. Between the news-paper fake
and the speaking arc, I think we've got him going. There he is."

It was an exciting ride, for the man ahead was almost reckless, though
he seemed to know instinctively still just when to put on bursts of
speed and when to slow down to escape being arrested for speeding. We
hung on, managing to keep something less than a couple of blocks behind
him. It was evident that he was making for the ferry uptown across the
river to New Jersey, and, taking advantage of this knowledge, Garrick
was able to drop back a little, and approach the ferry by going down a
different street so that there was no hint yet that we were following
him.

By judicious jockeying we succeeded in getting on the boat on the
opposite side from the car we were following, and in such a way that we
could get off as soon as he could. We managed to cross the ferry, and,
in the general scramble that attends the landing, to negotiate the hill
on the other side of the river without attracting the attention of the
man in the other car. His one idea seemed to be speed, and he had no
suspicion, apparently, that in his flight he was being followed.

As we bowled along, forced by circumstances to take the fellow's dust,
Garrick would quietly chuckle now and then to himself.

"Fancy what he must have thought," he chortled. "First the newspaper
that sent him scurrying up to the gambling place for more news, or to
spread the alarm, and then, while they were sitting about, perhaps
while someone was talking about the strange voices they had already
heard this morning, suddenly the voice from nowhere. Can you blame them
if they thought it was a warning from the grave?"

Whatever actually had happened in the gambling house, the practical
effect was all that even Garrick could have desired. Hour after hour,
we hung to that car ahead, leaving behind the cities, and passing along
the regular road through town after town.

Sometimes the road was well oiled, and we would have to drop back a bit
to escape too close observation. Then we would strike a stretch where
it was dry. The clouds of dust served to hide us. On we went until it
was apparent that the man was now headed at least in the direction of
Tuxedo.

We now passed the boundary between New York state and New Jersey and
soon after that came to the house of Dr. Mead where Warrington had been
convalescing until Garrick's warning had brought him, still half ill,
down to the city to protect Violet Winslow. In fact, the road seemed
replete with interesting reminiscences of the case, for a few miles
back was the spot where Rena Taylor's body had been found, as well as
the garage whence had come the rumour of the blood-stained car. There
was no chance to stop and tell the surprised Dr. Mead just what had
become of his patient and we had to trust that Warrington would explain
his sudden disappearance himself. In fact, Garrick scarcely looked to
either the right or left, so intent was he on not missing for an
instant the car that was leading us in this long chase.

On we sped, around the bend where Warrington had been held up. It was a
nasty curve, even in the daytime.

"I think this fellow ahead noticed the place," gritted Garrick, leaning
forward. "He seemed to slow up a bit as he turned. I hope he didn't
notice us as he turned his head back slightly."

It made no difference, if he did, for, the curve passed, he was
evidently feeding the gas faster than ever. We turned the curve also,
the forward car something more than a quarter of a mile ahead of us.

"We must take a chance and close up on him," said Garrick, as he, too,
accelerated his speed, not a difficult thing to do with the almost
perfect racer of Warrington's. "He may turn off at a crossroad at any
time, now."

Still our man kept on, bowling northward along the fine state road that
led to one of the richest parts of the country.

He came to the attractive entrance to Tuxedo Park. Almost, I had
expected him to turn in. At least I should not have been surprised if
he had done so.

However, he kept on northward, past the entrance to the Park. We hung
doggedly on.

Where was he going? I wondered whether Garrick might have been wrong,
after all. Half a mile lengthened into a mile. Still he was speeding on.

But Garrick had guessed right. Sure enough, at a cross road, the other
car slowed down, then quickly swung around, off the main road.

"What are you going to do?" I asked Garrick quickly. "If we turn also,
that will be too raw. Surely he'll notice that."

"Going to stop," cried Garrick, taking in the situation instantly.
"Come on, Tom, jump out. We'll fake a little tire trouble, in case he
should look around and see us stopping here. I'll keep the engine
running."

We went back and stood ostentatiously by the rear wheel. Garrick bent
over it, keeping his eye fixed on the other car, now perhaps half a
mile along on the narrow crossroad.

It neared the top of a hill on the other side of the valley across
which the road wound like a thin brown line, then dipped down over the
crest and was lost on the other side.

Garrick leaped back into our car and I followed. He turned the bend
almost on two wheels, and let her out as we swept down a short hill and
then took the gentle incline on high speed, eating up the distance as
though it had been inches instead of nearly a mile.

A short distance from the top of the hill, Garrick applied the brake,
just in time so that the top of our car would not be visible to one who
had passed on down the next incline into the valley beyond.

"Let us walk up the rest of the way," he said quickly, "and see what is
on the other side of this hill."

We did so cautiously. Far down below us we could see the car which we
had been trailing all the way up from the city, threading its way along
the country road. We watched it, and as we did so, it slowed up and
turned out, running up a sort of lane that led to what looked like a
trim little country estate.

The car had stopped at an unpretentious house at the end of the lane.
The driver got out and walked up to the back door, which seemed to be
stealthily opened to admit him.

"Good!" exclaimed Garrick. "At last we are on a hot trail!"




CHAPTER XXI

THE SIEGE OF THE BANDITS


As we watched from the top of the hill, I wondered what Garrick's next
move was to be. Surely he would not attempt to investigate the place
yet. In fact, there seemed to be nothing that could be done now, as
long as it was day-light, for any movement in this half-open country
would have been viewed with suspicion by the occupants of the little
house in the valley, whoever they might be.

We could not help viewing the place with a sort of awe. What secrets
did the cottage hide, nestled down there in the valley among these
green hills? Often I had heard that the gunmen of New York, when hard
pressed, sought refuge in the country districts and mountains within a
few miles of the city. There was something incongruous about it. Nature
seemed so perfectly peaceful here that it was the very antithesis of
those sections of the city in which he had found the gunman, whoever he
was, indulging in practically every crime and vice of decadent
civilization.

"So--the one they call the Boss has led up to the refuge of the Chief,
the scientific gunman, at last," Garrick exclaimed, with marked
satisfaction, as we turned and walked slowly back again to our car.

"Yes," I assented, "and now that we have found them--what are we to do
with them?"

"It is still early in the day," Garrick remarked, looking at his watch.
"They suspect no trouble up here. Here they evidently feel safe. No
doubt they think we are still hunting for them fruitlessly in New York.
I think we can afford to leave them here for a few hours. At any rate,
I feel that I must return to the city. I must see Dillon, and then drop
into my office, if we are to accomplish anything against them."

He had turned the car around and we made our way back to the main road,
and then southward again, taking up in earnest the long return trip to
the city and covering the distance in Warrington's racer in a much
shorter time, now that we had not to follow another car and keep under
cover. It was late in the afternoon, however, when we arrived and
Garrick went directly to police headquarters where he held a hasty
conference with Dillon.

Dillon was even more excited than we were when he learned how far we
had gone in tracing out the scant clews that we had uncovered. As
Garrick unfolded his plan, the commissioner immediately began to make
arrangements to accompany us out into the country that night.

I did not hear all that was said, as Garrick and Dillon laid out their
plans, but I could see that they were in perfect accord.

"Very well," I overheard Garrick, as we parted. "I shall go out in the
car again. You will be up on the train?"

"Yes--on the seven-fifty," returned Dillon. "You needn't worry about my
end of it. I'll be there with the goods--just the thing that you want.
I have it."

"Fine," exclaimed Garrick, "I have to make a call at the office. I'll
start as soon as I can, and try to beat you out."

They parted in good humour, for Dillon's passion for adventure was now
thoroughly aroused and I doubt if we could have driven him off with a
club, figuratively speaking.

At the office Garrick tarried only long enough to load the car with
some paraphernalia which he had there, much of which, I knew, he had
brought back with him after his study of police methods abroad. There
were three coats of a peculiar texture, which he took from a wardrobe,
a huge arrangement which looked like a reflector, a little thing that
looked merely like the mouthpiece of a telephone transmitter, and a
large heavy package which might have been anything from a field gun to
a battering ram.

It was twilight when we arrived at the nearest railroad station to the
little cottage in the valley, after another run up into the country in
the car. Dillon who had come up by train to meet us, according to the
arrangement with Garrick, was already waiting, and with him was one of
the most trustworthy and experienced of the police department
chauffeurs. Garrick looked about at the few loungers curiously, but
there did not seem to be any of them who took any suspicious interest
in new arrivals.

We four managed to crowd into a car built only for two, and Garrick
started off. A few minutes later we arrived at the top of the hill from
which we had already viewed the mysterious house earlier in the day. It
was now quite dark. We had met no one since turning off into the
crossroad, and could hear no sound except the continuous music of the
night insects.

Just before crossing the brow of the last hill, we halted and Garrick
turned out all the lights on the car. He was risking nothing that might
lead to discovery yet. With the engine muffled down, we coasted slowly
down the other side of the hill into the shadowy valley. There was no
moon yet and we had to move cautiously, for there was only the faint
light of the sky and stars to guide us.

What was the secret of that unpretentious little house below us? We
peered out in the gathering blackness eagerly in the direction where we
knew it must be, nestled among the trees. Whoever it sheltered was
still there, and we could locate the place by a single gleam that came
from an upper window. Whether there were lights below, we could not
tell. If there were they must have been effectively concealed by blinds
and shades.

"We'll stop here," announced Garrick at last when we had reached a
point on the road a few hundred yards from the house.

He ran the car carefully off the road and into a little clearing in a
clump of dark trees. We got out and pushed stealthily forward through
the underbrush to the edge of the woods. There, on the slope, just a
little way below us, stood the house of mystery.

Garrick and Dillon were busily conferring in an undertone, as I helped
them bring the packages one after another from the car to the edge of
the woods. Garrick had slipped the little telephone mouthpiece into his
pocket, and was carrying the huge reflector carefully, so that it might
not be injured in the darkness. I had the heavy coats of the peculiar
texture over my arm, while Dillon and his man struggled along over the
uncertain pathway, carrying between them the heavy, long, cylindrical
package, which must have weighed some sixty pounds or so.

Garrick had selected as the site of our operations a corner of the
grove where a very large tree raised itself as a landmark, silhouetted
in black against a dark sky. We deposited the stuff there as he
directed.

"Now, Jim," ordered Dillon, walking back to the car with his man, "I
want you to take the car and go back along this road until you reach
the top of the hill."

I could not hear the rest of the order, but it seemed that he was to
meet someone who had preceded us on foot from the railway station and
who must be about due to arrive. I did not know who or what it might
be, but even the thought of someone else made me feel safer, for in so
ticklish a piece of business as this, in dealing with at least a pair
of desperate men such as we knew them to be in the ominously quiet
little house, a second and even a third line of re-enforcements was
not, I felt, amiss.

Garrick in the meantime had set to work putting into position the huge
reflector. At first I thought it might be some method of throwing a
powerful light on the house. But on closer examination I saw that it
could not be a light. The reflector seemed to have been constructed so
that in the focus was a peculiar coil of something, and to the ends of
this coil, Garrick attached two wires which he fastened to an
instrument, cylindrical, with a broadened end, like a telephone
receiver.

Dillon, who had returned by this time, after sending his chauffeur back
on his errand, appeared very much interested in what Garrick was doing.

"Now, Tom," said Garrick, "while I am fixing this thing, I wish you
would help me by undoing that large package carefully."

While I was thus engaged, he continued talking with Dillon in a low
voice, evidently explaining to him the use to which he wished the large
reflector put.

I was working quickly to undo the large package, and as the wrappings
finally came off, I could see that it was some bulky instrument that
looked like a huge gun, or almost a mortar. It had a sort of barrel
that might have been, say, forty inches in length, and where the
breechlock should have been on an ordinary gun was a great
hemispherical cavity. There was also a peculiar arrangement of springs
and wheels in the butt.

"The coats?" he asked, as he took from the wrappings of the package
several rather fragile looking tubes.

I had laid them down near us and handed them over to him. They were
quite heavy, and had a rough feel.

"So-called bullet-proof cloth," explained Garrick. "At close range,
quite powerful lunges of a dagger or knife recoil from it, and at a
distance ordinary bullets rebound from it, flattened. We'll try it,
anyway. It will do no harm, and it may do good. Now we are ready,
Dillon."

"Wait just a minute," cautioned Dillon. "Let me see first whether that
chauffeur has returned. He can run that engine so quietly that I myself
can't hear it."

He had disappeared into the darkness toward the road, where he had
despatched the car a few minutes before. Evidently the chauffeur had
been successful in his mission, for Dillon was back directly with a
hasty, "Yes, all right. He's backing the car around so that he can run
it out on the road instantly in either direction. He'll be here in a
moment."

Garrick had in the meantime been roughly sketching on the back of an
old envelope taken from his pocket. Evidently he had been estimating
the distance of the house from the tree back of which he stood, and
worked with the light of a shaded pocket flashlight.

"Ready, then," he cried, jumping up and advancing to the peculiar
instrument which I had unwrapped. He was in his element now. After all
the weary hours of watching and preparation, here was action at last,
and Garrick went to it like a starved man at food.

First he elevated the clumsy looking instrument pointed in the general
direction of the house. He had fixed the angle at approximately that
which he had hastily figured out on the envelope. Then he took a
cylinder about twelve inches long, and almost half as much in diameter,
a huge thing, constructed, it seemed, of a substance that was almost as
brittle as an eggshell. Into the large hemispherical cavity in the
breech of the gun he shoved it. He took another quick look at the light
gleaming from the house in the darkness ahead of us.

"What is it?" I asked, indicating the "gun."

"This is what is known as the Mathiot gun," he explained as he brought
it into action, "invented by a French scientist for the purpose,
expressly, of giving the police a weapon to use against the automobile
bandits who entrench themselves, when cornered, in houses and garages,
as they have done in the outskirts of Paris, and as some anarchists did
once in a house in London."

"What does it do?" asked Dillon, who had taken a great interest in the
thing.

"It throws a bomb which emits suffocating gases without risking the
lives of the police," answered Garrick. "In spite of the fragility of
the bombs that I have here, it has been found that they will penetrate
a wooden door or even a thin brick partition before the fuse explodes
them. One bomb will render a room three hundred feet off uninhabitable
in thirty seconds. Now--watch!"

He had exploded the gun by hand, striking the flat head of a hammer
against the fulminating cap. The gun gave a bark. A low, whistling
noise and a crash followed.

"Too short," muttered Garrick, elevating the angle of the gun a trifle.

Quite evidently someone was moving in the house. There was a shadow, as
of someone passing between the light in the upper story and the window
on our side of the house.

Again the gun barked, and another bomb went hurtling through the air.
This time it hit the house squarely. Another followed in rapid
succession, and the crash of glass told that it had struck a window.
Garrick was sending them now as fast as he could. They had taken
effect, too, for the light was out, whether extinguished by gases or by
the hand of someone who realized that it afforded an excellent mark to
shoot at. Still, it made no difference, now, for we had the range.

"The house must be full of the stifling gases," panted Garrick, as he
stopped to wipe the perspiration from his face, after his rapid work,
clad in the heavy coat. "No man could stand up against that. I wonder
how our friend of the garage likes it, Tom? It is some of his own
medicine--the Chief, I mean. He tried it on us on a small scale very
successfully that night with his stupefying gun."

"I hope one of them hit him," ground out Dillon, who had no relish even
for the recollection of that night. "What next? Do you have to wait
until the gases clear away before we can make a break and go in there?"

Garrick had anticipated the question. Already he was buttoning up his
long coat. We did the same, mechanically.

"No, Dillon. You and Jim stay here," ordered Garrick. "You will get the
signal from us what to do next. Tom, come on."

He had already dashed ahead into the darkness, and I followed blindly,
stumbling over a ploughed field, then a fence over which we climbed
quickly, and found ourselves in the enclosure where was the house. I
had no idea what we were running up against, but a dog which had been
chained in the rear broke away from his fastening at sight of us, and
ran at us with a lusty and savage growl. Garrick planted a shot
squarely in his head.

Without wasting time on any formalities, such as ringing the bell, we
kicked and battered in the back door. We paused a moment, not from fear
but because the odor inside was terrific. No one could have stayed in
that house and retained his senses. One by one, Garrick flung open the
windows, and we were forced to stick our heads out every few minutes in
order to keep our own breath.

From one room to another we proceeded, without finding anyone. Then we
mounted to the second floor. The odour was worse there, but still we
found no one.

The light on the third floor had been extinguished, as I have said. We
made our way toward the corner where it had been. Room after room we
entered, but still found no one. At last we came to a door that was
locked. Together we wrenched it open.

There was surely nothing for us to fear in this room, for a bomb had
penetrated it, and had filled it completely. As we rushed in, Garrick
saw a figure sprawled on the floor, near the bed, in the corner.

"Quick, Tom!" he shouted, "Open that other window. I'll attend to this
man. He's groggy, anyhow."

Garrick had dropped down on his knees and had deftly slipped a pair of
handcuffs on the unresisting wrists of the man. Then he staggered to my
side at the open window, for air.

"Heavens--this is awful!" he gasped and sputtered. "I wonder where they
all went?"

"Who is this fellow?" I asked.

"I don't know yet. I couldn't see."

A moment later, together, we had dragged the unconscious man to the
window with us, while I fanned him with my hat and Garrick was wetting
his face with water from a pitcher of ice on the table.

"Good Lord!" Garrick exclaimed suddenly, as in the fitful light he bent
over the figure. "Do you see who it is?"

I bent down too and peered more closely.

It was Angus Forbes.

Strange to say, here was the young gambler whom we had seen at the
gambling joint before it was raided, the long-lost and long-sought
Forbes who had disappeared after the raid, and from whom no one had yet
heard a word.

I did not know his story, but I knew enough to be sure that he had been
in love with Violet himself, and, although Warrington had once come to
his rescue and settled thousands of dollars of his gambling debts, was
sore at Warrington for closing the gambling joint where he hoped
ultimately to recoup his losses. More than that, he was probably
equally sore at Warrington for winning the favour of the girl whose
fortune might have settled his own debts, if he had had a free field to
court her.

Why was Forbes here, I asked myself. The fumes of the bombs from the
Mathiot gun may have got into my head but, at least as far as I could
see, they had not made my mind any the less active. I felt that his
presence here, apparently as one of the gang, explained many things.

Who, I reasoned, would have been more eager to "get" Warrington at any
cost than he? I never had any love for the fellow, who had allowed his
faults and his temptations so far to get the upper hand of him. I had
felt a sort of pity at first, but the incident of the cancelled markers
in the gambling joint and now the discovery of him here had changed
that original feeling into one that was purely of disgust.

These thoughts were coursing through my fevered brain while Garrick was
working hard to bring him around.

Suddenly a mocking voice came from the hall.

"Yes, it's Forbes, all right, and much good may it do you to have him!"

The door to the room, which opened outward, banged shut. The lock had
been broken by us in forcing an entrance. There must have been two of
them out in the hall, for we heard the noise and scraping of feet, as
they piled up heavy furniture against the door, dragging it from the
next room before we could do anything. Piece after piece was wedged in
between our door and the opposite wall.

We could hear them taunt us as they worked, and I thought I recognised
at once the voice of the stocky keeper of the garage, the Boss, whom I
had heard so often before over our detectaphone. The other voice, which
seemed to me to be disguised, I found somewhat familiar, yet I could
not place it. It must have been, I thought, that of the man whom we had
come to know and fear under the appellation of the Chief.

We could hear them laugh, now, as they cursed us and wished us luck
with our capture. It was galling.

Evidently, too, they had not much use for Forbes, and, indeed, at such
a crisis I do not think he would have been much more than an additional
piece of animated impedimenta. Dissipation had not added anything to
the physical prowess of Forbes.

With a parting volley of profanity, they stamped down the narrow stairs
to the ground floor, and a few seconds afterward we could hear them
back of the house, working over the machine which we had followed up
from New York earlier in the day. Evidently there were several machines
in the barn which served them as garage, but this was the handiest.

They had cranked it up, and were debating which way they should go.

"The shots came from the direction of the main road," the Boss said.
"We had better go in the opposite direction. There may be more of them
coming. Hurry up!"

At least, it seemed, there had been only three of them in this refuge
which they had sought up in the hills and valleys of the Ramapos. Of
that we could now be reasonably certain. One of them we had
captured--and had ourselves been captured into the bargain.

I stuck my head out of the window to look at the other two down below,
only to feel myself dragged unceremoniously back by Garrick.

"What's the use of taking that risk, Tom?" he expostulated. "One shot
from them and you would be a dead one."

Fortunately they had not seen me, so intent were they on getting away.
They had now seated themselves in the car and, as Garrick had
suspected, could not resist delivering a parting shot at us, emptying
the contents of an automatic blindly up at our window. Garrick and I
were, as it happened, busy on the opposite side of the room.

All thought of Forbes was dropped for the present. Garrick said not a
word but continued at work in the corner of the room by the other
broken window.

"Either they must have succeeded in getting out after the first shot
and so escaped the fumes," muttered Garrick finally, "and hid in the
stable, or, perhaps, they were out there at work anyhow. Still that
makes little difference now. They must have seen us go in, have
followed us quietly, and then caught us here."

With a hasty final imprecation, the car below started forward with a
jerk and was swallowed up in the darkness.




CHAPTER XXII

THE MAN HUNT


Here we were, locked in a little room on the top floor of the
mysterious house. I looked out of both windows. There was no way to
climb down and it was too far to jump, especially in the uncertain
darkness. I threw myself at the door. It had been effectually braced by
our captors.

Garrick, in the meantime, had lighted the light again, and placed it by
the window.

Forbes, now partly recovered, was rambling along, and Garrick, with one
eye on him and the other on something which he was working over in the
light, was too busy to pay much attention to my futile efforts to find
a means of escape.

At first we could not make out what it was that Forbes was trying to
tell us, but soon, as the fresh air in the room revived him, his voice
became stronger. Apparently he recognised us and was trying to offer an
explanation of his presence here.

"He kidnapped me--brought me here," Forbes was muttering. "Three
days--I've been shut up in this room."

"Who brought you here?" I demanded sharply.

"I don't know his name--man at the gambling place--after the raid--said
he'd take me in his car somewhere--from the other place back of
it--last I remember--must have drugged me--woke up here--all I know."

"You've been a prisoner, then?" I queried.

"Yes," he murmured.

"A likely story," I remarked, looking questioningly at Garrick who had
been listening but had not ceased his own work, whatever it was. "What
are you going to do, Guy? We can't stay here and waste time over such
talk as this while they are escaping. They must be almost to the road
now, and turning down in the opposite direction from Dillon and his
man."

Garrick said nothing. Either he was too busy solving our present
troubles or he was, like myself, not impressed by Forbes' incoherent
story. He continued to adjust the little instrument which I had seen
him draw from his pocket and now recognised as the thing which looked
like a telephone transmitter. Only, the back of it seemed to gleam with
a curious brightness under the rays of the light, as he handled it.

"They have somehow contrived to escape the effect of the bombs," he was
saying, "and have surprised us in the room on the top floor where the
light is. We are up here with a young fellow named Forbes, whom we have
captured. He's the young man that I saw several times at the gambling
joint and was at dinner with Warrington the night when the car was
stolen. He was pretty badly overcome by the fumes, but I've brought him
around. He either doesn't know much or won't tell what he knows. That
doesn't make any difference now, though. They have escaped in a car.
They are leaving by the road. Wait. I'll see whether they have reached
it yet. No, it's too dark to see and they have no light on the car. But
they must have turned. They said they were going in the direction
opposite from you."

"Well?" I asked, mystified. "What of it? I know all that, already."

"But Dillon doesn't," replied Garrick, in great excitement now. "I knew
that we should have to have some way of communicating with him
instantly if this fellow proved to be as resourceful as I believed him
to be. So I thought of the radiophone or photophone of Dr. Alexander
Graham Bell. I have really been telephoning on a beam of light."

"Telephoning on a beam of light?" I repeated incredulously.

"Yes," he explained, feeling now at liberty to talk since he had
delivered his call for help. "You see, I talk into this transmitter.
The simplest transmitter for this purpose is a plane mirror of flexible
material, silvered mica or microscope glass. Against the back of this
mirror my voice is directed. In the carbon transmitter of the telephone
a variable electrical resistance is produced by the pressure on the
diaphragm, based on the fact that carbon is not as good a conductor of
electricity under pressure as when not. Here, the mouthpiece is just a
shell supporting a thin metal diaphragm to which the mirror on the back
is attached, an apparatus for transforming the air vibrations produced
by the voice into light vibrations of the projected beam, which is
reflected from this light here in the room. The light reflected is thus
thrown into vibrations corresponding to those in the diaphragm."

"And then?" I asked impatiently.

"That varying beam of light shoots out of this room, and is caught by
the huge reflector which you saw me set up at the foot of that tall
tree which you can just see against the dark sky over there. That
parabolic mirror gathers in the scattered rays, focusses them on the
selenium cell which you saw in the middle of the reflector, and that
causes the cell to vary the amount of electric current passing through
it from a battery of storage cells. It is connected with a very good
telephone receiver. Every change in the beam of light due to the
vibrations of my voice is caught by that receiving mirror, and the
result is that the diaphragm in the receiver over there which Dillon is
holding to his ear responds. The thing is good over several hundred
yards, perhaps miles, sometimes. Only, I wish it would work both ways.
I would like to feel sure that Dillon gets me."

I looked at the simple little instrument with a sort of reverence, for
on it depended the momentous question of whether we should be released
in time to pursue the two who were escaping in the automobile.

"You'll have to hurry," continued Garrick, speaking into his
transmitter. "Give the signal. Get the car ready. Anything, so long as
it is action. Use your own judgment."

There he was, flashing a message out of our prison by an invisible ray
that shot across the Cimmerian darkness to the point where we knew that
our friends were waiting anxiously. I could scarcely believe it. But
Garrick had the utmost faith in the ability of the radiophone to make
good.

"They MUST have started by this time," he cried, craning his neck out
of the window and looking in every direction.

Forbes was still rambling along, but Garrick was not paying any
attention to him. Instead, he began rummaging the room for possible
evidence, more for something to do than because he hoped to find
anything, while we were waiting anxiously for something to happen.

An exclamation from Garrick, however, brought me to his side. Tucked
away in a bureau drawer under some soiled linen that plainly belonged
to Forbes, he drew out what looked like a single blue-steel tube about
three inches long. At its base was a hard-rubber cap, which fitted
snugly into the palm of the hand as he held it. His first and middle
fingers encircled the barrel, over a steel ring. A pull downward and
the thing gave a click.

"Good that it wasn't loaded," Garrick remarked. "I knew what the thing
was, all right, but I didn't think the spring was as delicate as all
that. It is a new and terrible weapon of destruction of human life, one
that can be carried by the thug or the burglar and no one be the wiser,
unless he has occasion to use it. It is a gun that can be concealed in
the palm of the hand. A pull downward on that spring discharges a
thirty-two calibre, centre fire cartridge. The most dangerous feature
of it is that the gun can be carried in an upper vest pocket as a
fountain pen, or in a trousers pocket as a penknife."

I looked with added suspicion now, if not a sort of respect, on the
young man who was tossing, half conscious, on the bed. Was he, after
all, not the simple, gullible Forbes, but a real secret master of crime?

Garrick, keen though he had been over the discovery, was in reality
much more interested just now in the result of his radiophone message.
What would be the outcome?

I had been startled to see that almost instantly after his second call
over the radiophone there seemed to rise on all sides of us lights and
the low baying of dogs.

"What's all that?" I asked Garrick.

"Dillon had a dozen or so police dogs shipped up here quietly,"
answered Garrick, now straining his eyes and ears eagerly. "He started
them out each in charge of an officer as soon as they arrived. I hope
they had time to get around in that other direction and close in. That
was what he sent the chauffeur back to see about, to make sure that
they were placed by the man who is the trainer of the pack."

"What kind of dogs are they?"

"Some Airedales, but mostly Belgian sheep dogs. There is one in the
pack, Cherry, who has a wonderful reputation. A great deal depends,
now, on our dog-detectives."

"But," I objected, "what good will they be? Our men are in an
automobile."

"We thought of that," replied Garrick confidently. "Here they are, at
last," he cried, as a car swung up the lane from the road and stopped
with a rush under our window. He leaned out and shouted, "Dillon--up
here--quick!"

It was Dillon and his chauffeur, Jim. A moment later there was a
tremendous shifting and pulling of heavy pieces of furniture in the
hall, and, as the door swung open, the honest face of the commissioner
appeared, inquiring anxiously if we were all right.

"Yes, all right," assured Garrick. "Come on, now. There isn't a minute
to lose. Send Jim up here to take charge of Forbes. I'll drive the car
myself."

Garrick accomplished in seconds what it takes minutes to tell. The
chauffeur had already turned the car around and it was ready to start.
We jumped in, leaving him to go upstairs and keep the manacled Forbes
safely.

We gained the road and sped along, our lights now lighted and showing
us plainly what was ahead. The dust-laden air told us that we were
right as we turned into the narrow crossroad. I wondered how we were
ever going to overtake them after they had such a start, at night, too,
over roads which were presumably familiar to them.

"Drive carefully," shouted Dillon soon, "it must be along here,
somewhere, Garrick."

A moment before we had been almost literally eating the dust the car
ahead had raised. Garrick slowed down as we approached a bend in the
road.

There, almost directly in our path, stood a car, turned half across the
road and jammed up into a fence. I could scarcely believe it. It was
the bandit's car--deserted!

"Good!" exclaimed Dillon as Garrick brought our own car to a stop with
a jerk only a few feet away.

I looked about in amazement, first at the empty car and then into the
darkness on either side of the road. For the moment I could not explain
it. Why had they abandoned the car, especially when they had every
prospect of eluding us in it?

They had not been forced to turn out for anybody, for no other vehicle
had passed us. Was it tire trouble or engine trouble? I turned to the
others for an explanation.

"I thought it must be about here," cried Dillon. "We had one of my men
place an obstruction in the road. They didn't run into it, which shows
clever driving, but they had to turn so sharply that they ran into the
fence. I guess they realised that there was no use in turning and
trying to go back."

"They have taken to the open country," shouted Garrick, leaping up on
the seat of our car and looking about in a vain endeavour to catch some
sign of them.

All was still, save here and there the sharp, distant bark of a dog.

"I wonder which way they went?" he asked, looking down at us.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE POLICE DOG


Dillon pulled a whistle from his pocket and blew a short blast sharply.
Far down the road, we could hear faintly an answering bark. It came
nearer.

"They're taught to obey a police whistle and nothing else," remarked
Dillon, with satisfaction. "I wonder which one of the dogs that was. By
the way, just keep out of sight as much as you can--get back up in our
car. They are trained to worry anyone who hasn't a uniform. I'll take
this dog in charge. I hope it's Cherry. She ought to be around here, if
the men obeyed my orders. The others aren't keen on a scent even when
it is fresh, but Cherry is a dandy and I had the man bring her up
purposely."

We got back into our car and waited impatiently. Across the hills now
and then we could catch the sounds of dogs scouting around here and
there. It seemed as if every dog in the valley had been aroused. On the
other slope of the hill from the main road we could see lights in the
scattered houses.

"I doubt whether they have gone that way," commented Garrick following
my gaze. "It looks less settled over here to the right of the road, in
the direction of New York."

The low baying of the dog which had answered Dillon's call was growing
nearer every moment. At last we could hear it quite close, at the
deserted car ahead.

Cherry seemed to have many of the characteristics of the wild,
prehistoric animal, among them the full, upright ears of the wild dog,
which are such a great help to it. She was a fine, alert, up-standing
dog, hardy, fierce, and literally untiring, of a tawny light brown like
a lioness, about the same size and somewhat of the type of the
smooth-coated collie, broad of chest and with a full brush of tail.

Untamed though she seemed, she was perfectly under Dillon's control,
and rendered him absolute and unreasoning obedience.

"Now, Cherry, nice dog," we heard Dillon encouraging, "Here, up here.
And here."

He was giving the dog the scent from the deserted car. His voice rang
out sharply in the night air, "Come on Garrick and Marshall. She's got
it. I've got her on leash. Follow along, now, just a few feet behind."

Cherry was on the trail and it was a hot one. We could just see her
magnificent head, narrow and dome-like, between the keen ears. She was
working like a regular sleuthhound, now, too, slowly, picking up the
trail and following it, baying as she went.

She was now going without a halt or falter. Nose to the ground, she had
leaped from the bandit's car and made straight across a field in the
direction that Garrick had suspected they would take, only a little to
the west.

"This is a regular, old-fashioned man hunt," called back Dillon, as we
followed the dog and himself, as best we could.

It was pitch dark, but we plunged ahead over fields and through little
clumps of trees, around hedges, and over fences.

There was no stopping, no cessation of the deep baying of the dog.
Cherry was one of the best and most versatile that the police had ever
acquired and trained.

We came to the next crossroad, and the dog started up in the direction
of the main road, questing carefully.

We had gone not a hundred feet when a dark object darted out of the
bushes at the side of the road, and I felt myself unceremoniously
tumbled off my feet.

Garrick leaped aside, with a laugh.

"Dillon," he shouted ahead at the top of his voice, "one of the
Airedales has discovered Marshall. Come back here. Lie still, Tom. The
dog is trained to run between the legs and trip up anyone without a
police uniform. By Jupiter--here's another one--after me. Dillon--I
say--Dillon!"

The commissioner came back, laughing at our plight, and called off the
dogs, who were now barking furiously. We let him get a little ahead,
calling the Airedales to follow him. They were not much good on the
scent, but keen and intelligent along the lines of their training, and
perfectly willing to follow Dillon, who was trusting to the keen sense
of Cherry.

A little further down, the fugitives had evidently left the road after
getting their bearings.

"They must have heard the dogs," commented Garrick. "They are doubling
on their tracks, now, and making for the Ramapo River in the hope of
throwing the dogs off the scent. That's the game. It's an old trick."

We came, sure enough, in a few minutes to the river. That had indeed
been their objective point. Cherry was baffled. We stuck close to
Dillon, after our previous experience, as we stopped to talk over
hastily what to do.

Had they gone up or down, or had they crossed? There was not much time
that we could afford to lose here in speculation if we were going to
catch them.

Cherry was casting backward in an instinctive endeavour to pick up the
trail. Dillon had taken her across and she had not succeeded in finding
the scent on the opposite bank for several hundred yards on either side.

"They started off toward the southwest," reasoned Garrick quickly.
"Then they turned in this direction. The railroads are over there. Yes,
that is what they would make for. Dillon," he called, "let us follow
the right bank of the river down this way, and see if we can't pick
them up again."

The river was shallow at this point, but full of rocks, which made it
extremely hard, if not dangerous, to walk even close to the bank in the
darkness. "I don't think they'd stand for much of this sort of going,"
remarked Garrick. "A little of it would satisfy them, and they'd strike
out again."

He was right. Perhaps five minutes later, after wading in the cold
water, clinging as close to the bank as we could, we came to a sort of
rapids. Cherry, who had been urged on by Dillon, gave a jerk at her
leash, as she sniffed along the bank.

"She has it," cried Garrick, springing up the bank after Dillon.

I followed and we three men and three dogs struck out again in earnest
across country.

We had come upon a long stretch of woods, and the brambles and thick
growth made the going exceedingly difficult. Still, if it was hard for
us now, it must have been equally hard for them as they broke through
in the first place.

At last we came to the end of the woods. The trail was now fresher than
ever, and Dillon had difficulty in holding Cherry back so that the rest
of us could follow. As we emerged from the shadow of the trees into the
open field, it seemed as if guns were blazing on all sides of us.

We were almost up with them. They had separated and were not half a
mile away, firing at random in our direction, as they heard the dogs.
Dillon drew up, Cherry tugging ahead. He turned to the Airedales. They
had already taken in the situation, and were now darting ahead at what
they could see, if not scent.

I felt a "ping!" on my chest. I scarcely realized what it was until I
heard something drop the next instant in the stubble at my feet, and
felt a smarting sensation as if a sharp blow had struck me. I bent down
and from the stubble picked up a distorted bullet.

"These bullet-proof coats are some good, anyhow, at a distance,"
remarked Garrick, close beside me, as he took the bullet from my
fingers. "Duck! Back among the trees--until we get our bearings!"

Another bullet had whizzed just past his arm as he spoke.

We dodged back among the trees, and slowly skirted the edge of the
wood, where it bent around a little on the flank of the position from
which the continuous firing was coming.

At the edge we stopped again. We could go no further without coming out
into the open, and the moon, just rising, above the trees, made us an
excellent mark under such conditions. Garrick peered out to determine
from just where they were firing.

"Lucky for us that we had these coats," he muttered, "or they would
have croaked us, before we knew it. These are our old friends, the
anaesthetic bullets, too. Even a little scratch from one of them and we
should be hors de combat for an hour or two."

"Shall we take a chance?" urged Dillon.

"Just a minute," cautioned Garrick, listening.

The barking of the Airedales had ceased suddenly. Cherry was straining
at her leash to go.

"They have winged the two dogs," exclaimed Garrick. "Yes--we must try
it now--at any cost."

We broke from the cover, taking a chance, separating as much as we
could, and pushing ahead rapidly, Dillon under his breath keeping
Cherry from baying as much as possible.

I had expected a sharp fusillade to greet us as we advanced and
wondered whether the coats would stand it at closer range. Instead, the
firing seemed to have ceased altogether.

A quick dash and we had crossed the stretch of open field that
separated us from a dark object which now loomed up, and from behind
which it seemed had come the firing. As we approached, I saw it was a
shed beside the railroad, which was depressed at this point some twelve
or fifteen feet.

"They kept us off just long enough," exclaimed Garrick, glancing up at
the lights of the block signals down the road. "They must be desperate,
all right. Why, they must have jumped a freight as it slowed down for
the curve, or perhaps one of them flagged it and held it up. See? The
red signal shows that a train has just gone through toward New York.
There is no chance to wire ahead, either, from this Ducktown siding.
Here's where they stood--look!"

Garrick had picked up a handful of exploded cartridge shells, while he
was speaking. They told a mute story of the last desperate stand of the
gunmen.

"I'll keep these," he said, shoving them into his pocket. "They may be
of some use later on in connecting to-night's doings with what has gone
before."

We looked at each other blankly. There was nothing more to do that
night but to return to the now deserted house in the valley where we
had left Forbes in charge of Dillon's man.

Toilsomely and disgusted, we trudged back in silence.

Garrick, however, refused to be discouraged. Late as it was, he
insisted on making a thorough search of the captured house. It proved
to be a veritable arsenal. Here it seemed that all the new and deadly
weapons of the scientific gunman had been made. The barn, turned into
half garage and half workshop, was a mine of interest.

We found it unlocked and entered, Garrick flashing a light about.

"There's a sight that would do McBirney's eyes good," he exclaimed as
he bent the rays of the light before us.

Before us, in the back of the barn, stood Warrington's stolen car--at
last.

"They won't plot anything more--at least not up here," remarked
Garrick, bending over it.

In the house, we found Jim still with Forbes, who was now completely
recovered. In the possession of his senses, Forbes' tongue which the
anaesthetic gases seemed to have loosened, now became suddenly silent
again. But he stuck doggedly to his story of kidnapping, although he
would not or could not add anything to it. Who the kidnapper was he
swore he did not know, except that he had known his face well, by
sight, at the gambling joint.

I could make nothing of Forbes. But of one thing I was sure. Even if we
had not captured the scientific gunman, we had dealt him a severe and
crushing blow. Like Garrick, I had begun to look upon the escape
philosophically.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE FRAME-UP


Although I felt discouraged on our return to the city, the morning
following our exciting adventure at the mysterious house in the Ramapo
valley, Garrick, who never let anything ruffle him long, seemed quite
cheerful.

"Cheer up, Tom," he encouraged. "We are on the home stretch now."

"Perhaps--if they don't beat us to the tape," I answered
disconsolately. "What are you going to do next?"

"While you were snatching a little sleep, I was rummaging around and
found a number of letters in a table drawer, up there. One was a note,
evidently to the garage keeper, and signed merely, 'Chief.' I'll wager
that the handwriting is the same as that in the blackmailing letter to
Miss Winslow."

"What of it?" I asked, refusing to be comforted. "We haven't got him
and the prospects--"

"No, we haven't got him," interrupted Garrick, "but the note was just a
line to tell the Boss, who seemed to have been up there in the country
at the time, to meet the Chief at 'the Joint,' on Second Avenue."

I nodded, but before I could speak, he added, "It didn't say any more,
but I think I know the place. It is the old International Cafe, a
regular hang-out for crooks, where they come to gamble away the
proceeds of their crimes in stuss, the great game of the East Side,
now. Anyhow, we'll just drop into the place. We may not find them, but
we'll have an interesting time. Then, there is the possibility of
getting a strangle hold on someone, anyhow."

Garrick was evidently figuring on having driven our gunman back into
the haunts of the underworld.

There seemed to be no other course that presented itself and therefore,
rather than remain inactive until something new turned up, I consented
to accompany him in his excursion.

Forbes, still uncommunicatively protesting that he would say nothing
until he had an opportunity to consult a lawyer, had been taken down to
New York by Dillon during the morning and was lodged in a West Side
prison under a technical charge which was sufficient to hold him until
Garrick could investigate his case and fix his real status.

We had taken a cross-town car, with the intention of looking over the
dive where Garrick believed the crooks might drop in. The ride itself
was uninteresting, but not so by any means the objective point of our
journey.

Over on the East Side, we found the International Cafe, and slouched
into the back room. It was not the room devoted to stuss, but the
entrance to it, which Garrick informed me was through a heavy door
concealed in a little hallway, so that its very existence would not be
suspected except by the initiate.

We made no immediate attempt to get into the hang-out proper, which was
a room perhaps thirty feet wide and seventy feet deep. Instead, we sat
down at one of the dirty, round tables, and ordered something from the
waiter, a fat and oily Muscowitz in a greasy and worn dinner coat.

It seemed that in the room where we were had gathered nearly every
variety of the populous underworld. I studied the men and women at the
tables curiously, without seeming to do so. But there could be no
concealment here. Whatever we might be, they seemed to know that we
were not of them, and they greeted us with black looks and now and then
a furtive scowl.

It was not long, however, before it became evident that in some way
word had been passed that we were not mere sightseers. Perhaps it was
by a sort of wireless electric tension that seemed to pervade the air.
At any rate, it was noticeable.

"There's no use staying here," remarked Garrick to me under his breath,
affecting not to notice the scowls, "unless we do something. Are you
game for trying to get into the stuss joint?"

He said it with such determination to go himself that I did not refuse.
I had made up my mind that the only thing to do was to follow him,
wherever he went.

Garrick rose, stretched himself, yawned as though bored, and together
we lounged out into the public hall, just as someone from the outside
clamoured for admission to the stuss joint through the strong door.

The door had already been opened, when Garrick deftly inserted his
shoulder. Through the crack in the door, I could see the startled
roomful of players of all degrees in crookdom, in the thick, curling
tobacco smoke.

The man at the door called out to Garrick to get out, and raised his
arm to strike. Garrick caught his fist, and slowly with his powerful
grip bent it back until the man actually writhed. As his wrist went
back by fractions of an inch, his fingers were forced to relax. I knew
the trick. It was the scientific way to open a clenched fist. As the
tendons refused to stretch any farther, his fingers straightened, and a
murderous looking blackjack clattered to the floor.

All was confusion. Money which was on the various tables disappeared as
if by magic. Cards were whisked away as if a ghost had taken them. In a
moment there was no more evidence of gambling than is afforded by any
roomful of men, so easy was it to hide the paraphernalia, or, rather,
lack of paraphernalia of stuss.

It was the custom, I knew, for criminals, after they had made a haul to
retire into such places as these stuss parlors, not only to spend the
proceeds of their robberies, but for protection. Even though they were
unmercifully fleeced by the gamblers, they might depend on them to warn
of the approach of the "bulls" and if possible count on being hidden or
spirited off to safety.

Apparently we had come just at a time when there were some criminals in
hiding among the players. It was the only explanation I could offer of
the strange action that greeted our simple attempt to gain admission to
the stuss room. Whether they were criminals who had really made a haul
or mere fugitives from justice, I could not guess. But that a warning
had been given the man at the door to be on his guard, seemed evident
from the manner in which we had been met.

There was a rush of feet in the room. I expected that we would be
overwhelmed. Instead, as together we pushed on the now half-open door,
the room emptied like a sieve. Whoever it might be who had taken refuge
there had probably disappeared, among the first, by tacit understanding
of the rest, for the whole thing had the air of being run off according
to instructions.

"It's a collar!" had sounded through the room, the moment we had
appeared at the door, and it was now empty.

I wondered whether the letter which Garrick had found might not, after
all, have brought us straight to the last resort of those whom we
sought.

"Where have they gone?" I panted, as the door opened at last, and we
found only one man in the place.

There he stood apparently ready to be arrested, in fact courting it if
we could show the proper authority, since he knew that it would be only
a question of hours when he would be out again and the game would be
resumed, in full blast.

The man shook his head blankly in answer to my question.

"There must be a trap door somewhere," cried Garrick. "It is no use to
find it. They are all on the street by this time. Quick--before anyone
catches us in the rear."

We had been not a moment too soon in gaining the street. Though we had
done nothing but attempt to get into the stuss room, ostensibly as
players, the crowd in the cafe was pressing forward.

On the street, we saw men filing quickly from a cellar, a few doors
down the block. We mingled with the excited crowd in order to cover
ourselves.

"That must have been where the trap door and passage led," whispered
Garrick.

A familiar figure ducked out of the cellar, surrounded by others, and
the crowd made for two taxicabs standing on the opposite side of the
street near a restaurant which was really not a tough joint but made a
play at catering to people from uptown who wanted a taste of near-crime
and did not know when they were being buncoed.

Another cab swung up to the stand, just as the first two pulled away.
Its sign was up: "Vacant."

Quick as a flash, Garrick was in it, dragging me after him. The driver
must have thought that we, too, were escaping, for he needed only one
order from Garrick to leap ahead in the wake of the cabs which had
already started.

A moment later, Garrick's head was out of the window. He had drawn his
revolver and was pegging away at the tires of the cabs ahead. An
answering shot came back to us. Meanwhile, a policeman at a corner
leaped on a passing trolley and urged the motorman to put on the full
power in a vain effort to pursue us as we swept by up the broad avenue.

Even the East Side, accustomed to frequent running fights on the
streets between rival gunmen and gangs, was roused by such an outburst.
The crack of revolver shots, the honking of horns, the clang of the
trolley bell, and the shouts of men along the street brought hundreds
to the windows, as the cars lurched and swayed up the avenue.

The cars ahead swerved to dodge a knot of pedestrians, but their pace
never slackened. Then the rearmost of the two began to buck and almost
leap off the roadway. There came a rattle and roar from the rear wheels
which told that the tires had been punctured and that the heavy wheels
were riding on their rims, cutting the deflated tubes. At a cross
street the first car turned, just in time to avoid a truck, and dodged
down a maze of side streets, but the second ran squarely into the truck.

As the first car disappeared we caught a glimpse of a man leaning out
of it. He seemed to be swinging something around and around at arm's
length. Suddenly he let it go and it shot high up in the air on the
roof of a tenement house.

"The automobile is the most dangerous weapon ever used by criminals,"
muttered Garrick, as the first car shot down through a mass of trucking
which had backed up and shifted, making pursuit momentarily more
impossible for us. "These people know how to use the automobile, too.
But we've got someone here, anyhow," he cried, leaping out and pushing
aside the crowd that had collected about the wrecked car.

In the bottom of it we found a man, stunned and crumpled into a heap.
Blood flowed from his arm where one of the bullets had struck him.
Several bullets had struck the back of the cab and both tires were cut
by them.

As I came up and looked over Garrick's shoulder at the prostrate and
unconscious figure in the car, I could not restrain an exclamation of
surprise.

It was the garage keeper, the Boss--at last!

Policemen had come up in the meantime, and several minutes were
consumed while Garrick proved to them his identity.

"What was that thing the fellow in the forward car whirled over his
head?" I whispered.

"A revolver, I think," returned Garrick. "That's a favourite trick of
the gunmen. With a stout cord tied to a gun you can catapult it far
enough to destroy the evidence that will hold you under the Sullivan
law, at least. I mean to get that gun as soon as we are through with
this fellow here."

Someone had turned in a call for an ambulance which came jangling up
soon after, and we stood in a group close to the young surgeon as he
worked to bring around the captured gangster.

"Where's the Chief?" he mumbled, dazed.

Garrick motioned to us to be quiet.

The man rambled on with a few inconsequential remarks, then opened his
eyes, caught sight of the white coated surgeon working over him, of us
standing behind, and of the crowd about him.

Memory of what had happened flitted back to him. With an effort he was
himself again, close-mouthed, after the manner of the gangsters.

The surgeon had done all in his power and the man was sufficiently
recovered to be taken to the hospital, now, under arrest. As far as we
were concerned, our work was done. The Boss could be found now, at any
time that we needed him, but that he would speak all the traditions of
gangland made impossible.

I wondered what Garrick would do. As for myself, I had no idea what
move to make.

It surprised me, therefore, to see him with a smile of satisfaction on
his face.

"I'll see you this afternoon, Tom," he said merely, as the ambulance
bore the wounded Boss away. "Meanwhile, I wish you'd take the time to
go over to headquarters and give Dillon our version of this affair.
Tell him to hold to-night open, too. I have a little work to do this
afternoon, and I'll call him up later."

Dillon, I found, was overjoyed when I reported to him the capture of at
least one man whom we had failed to get the night before.

"Things seem to be clearing up, after all," he remarked. "Tell Garrick
I shall hold open to-night for him. Meanwhile, good luck, and let me
know the moment you get any word about the Chief. He must have been in.
that first cab, all right."

As I left Dillon's office, I ran into Herman in the hall, coming in. I
bowed to him and he nodded surlily. Evidently, I thought, he had heard
of the result of our activities. I did not ask him what progress he had
made in the case, for I had had experience with professional jealousy
before, and thought that the less said on the subject the better.

Recalling what Garrick had said, I curbed my impatience as best I
could, in order to give him ample time to complete the work that he had
to do. It was not until the middle of the afternoon that I rejoined him
in his office.

I found him at work at a table, still, with a microscope and an
arrangement which I recognised as the apparatus for making
microphotographs. Several cartridges, carefully labelled, were lying
before him, as well as the peculiar pistol we had found when we had
captured Forbes in the little room. There were also the guns we had
captured in the garage and one found in the cab which we had chased and
wrecked.

On the end of the table was a large number of photographs of a most
peculiar nature. I picked up one. It looked like an enlarged photograph
of an orange, or like some of the pictures which the astronomers make
of the nearer planets.

"What are these?" I asked curiously, as he leaned back from his work,
with a smile of quiet satisfaction.

"That is a collection of microphotographs which I have gathered," he
answered, adding, "as well as some that I have just made. I hope to use
them in a little stereopticon entertainment I am arranging to-night for
those who have been interested in the case."

Garrick smiled. "Have you ever heard?" he asked, "that the rounded end
of the firing pin of every rifle when it is examined under a microscope
bears certain irregularities of marking different from those of every
other firing pin and that the primer of every shell fired in a rifle is
impressed with the particular markings of that firing pin?"

I had not, but Garrick went on, "I know that it is true. Such markings
are distinctive for each rifle and can be made by no other. I have
taken rifles bearing numbers preceding and following that of a
particular one, as well as a large number of other firing pins. I have
tried the rifles and the firing pins, one by one, and after I made
microphotographs of the firing pins with special reference to the
rounded ends and also photographs of the corresponding rounded
depressions in the primers fired by them, it was forced upon me that
cartridges fired by each individual firing pin could be positively
identified."

I had been studying the photographs. It was a new idea, and it appealed
to me strongly. "How about revolvers?" I asked quickly.

"Well, Dr. Balthazard, the French criminologist, has made experiments
on the identification of revolver bullets and has a system that might
be compared to that of Bertillon for identifying human beings. He has
showed by greatly enlarged photographs that every gun barrel leaves
marks on a bullet and that the marks are always the same for the same
barrel but never identical for two different barrels. He has shown that
the hammer of a revolver, say a centre fire, strikes the cartridge at a
point which is never the exact centre of the cartridge, but is always
the same for the same weapon. He has made negatives of bullets nearly a
foot wide. Every detail appears very distinctly and it can be decided
with absolute certainty whether a certain bullet or cartridge was fired
by a certain revolver."

He had picked up one of the microphotographs and was looking at it
attentively through a small glass.

"You will see," he explained, "on the edge of this photograph a rough
sketch calling attention to a mark like an L which is the chief
characteristic of this hammer, although there are other detailed
markings which show well under the microscope but not in a photograph.
You will note that the marks on a hammer are reversed on the primer in
the same way that a metal type and the character printed by it are
reversed as regards one another. Moreover, depressions on the end of a
hammer become raised on the primer and raised markings on the hammer
become depressions on the primer.

"Now, here is another. You can see that it is radically different from
the first, which was from the cartridge used in killing poor Rena
Taylor. This second one is from that gun which I found on the tenement
roof this morning. It lacks the L mark as well as the concentric
circles. Here is another. Its chief characteristics are a series of
pits and elevations which, examined under the microscope and measured,
will be found to afford a set of characters utterly different from
those of any other hammer.

"In short," he concluded with an air of triumph, "the ends of firing
pins are turned and finished in a lathe by the use of tools designed
for that purpose. The metal tears and works unevenly so that
microscopical examination shows many pits, lines, circles, and
irregularities. The laws of chance are as much against two of these
firing pins or hammers having the same appearance under the microscope
as they are against the thumb prints of two human subjects being
identical."

I picked up the curious little arrangement which we had found in the
drawer in Forbes' room and examined it closely.

"I have been practicing with that pistol, if you may call it that," he
remarked, "on cartridges of my own and examining the marks made by the
peculiar hammer. I have studied marks of the gun which we found on the
roof. I have compared them with the marks on cartridges which we have
picked up at the finding of Rena Taylor's body, at the garage that
night of the stupefying bullet, with bullets such as were aimed at
Warrington, with others, both cartridges and bullets, at various times,
and the conclusion is unescapable."

Who, I asked myself, was the scientific gunman? I knew it was useless
to try to hurry Garrick. First, by a sort of intuition he had picked
him out, then by the evidence of hammer and bullet he had made it
practically certain. But I knew that to his scientific mind nothing but
absolute certainty would suffice.

While I was waiting for him to proceed, he had already begun to work on
some apparatus behind a screen at the end of his office. Close to the
wall at the left was a stereopticon which, as nearly as I could make
out, shot a beam of light through a tube to a galvanometer about three
feet distant. In front of this beam whirled a five-spindled wheel
governed by a chronometer which was so accurate, he said, that it erred
only a second a day.

Between the poles of the galvanometer was stretched a slender thread of
fused quartz plated with silver. It was the finest thread I could
imagine, only a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter, far too tenuous
to be seen. Three feet further away was a camera with a moving plate
holder which carried a sensitized photographic plate. Its movement was
regulated by a big fly-wheel at the extreme right.

"You see," remarked Garrick, now engrossed on the apparatus and
forgetting the hammer evidence for the time, "the beam of light
focussed on that fine thread in the galvanometer passes to this
photographic plate. It is intercepted by the five spindles of the
wheel, which turns once a second, thus marking the picture off in exact
fifths of a second. The vibrations of the thread are enormously
magnified on the plate by a lens and produce a series of wavy or zigzag
lines. I have shielded the sensitized plate by a wooden hood which
permits no light to strike it except the slender ray that is doing the
work. The plate moves across the field slowly, its speed regulated by
the fly-wheel. Don't you think it is neat and delicate? All these
movements are produced by one of the finest little electric motors I
ever saw."

I could not get the idea of the revolvers out of my head so quickly. I
agreed with him, but all I could find to say was, "Do you think there
was more than this one whom they call the Chief engaged in the
shootings?"

"I can't say absolutely anything more than I have told you, yet," he
answered in a tone that seemed to discourage further questioning along
that line.

He continued to work on the delicate apparatus with its thread
stretched between the stationary magnets of the galvanometer, a thread
so delicate that it might have been spun by a microscopic spider, so
light that no scales made by human hands could weigh it, so slender
that the mind could hardly grasp it. It was about one-third the
diameter of a red corpuscle of blood and its weight had been estimated
as about .00685 milligrams, truly a fairy thread. It was finer than the
most delicate cobweb and could be seen with the naked eye only when a
strong light was thrown on it so as to catch the reflection.

"All I can say is," he admitted, "that the bullets which committed this
horrible series of crimes have been proven all to be shot from the same
gun, presumably, I think I shall show, by the same hand, and that hand
is the same that wrote the blackmailing letter."

"Whose gun was it?" I asked. "Was there a way to connect it and the
bullets and the cartridges with the owner--four things, all
separated--and then that owner with the curious and tragic succession
of events that had marked the case since the theft of Warrington's car?"

Garrick had apparently completed his present work of adjusting the
delicate apparatus. He was now engaged on another piece which also had
a powerful light in it and an attachment which bore a strong
resemblance to a horn.

He paused a moment, regarding me quizzically. "I think you'll find it
sufficiently novel to warrant your coming, Tom," he added. "I have
already invited Dillon and his man, Herman, over the telephone just
before you came in. McBirney will be there, and Forbes, of course.
He'll have to come, if I want him. By the way, I wish you'd get in
touch with Warrington and see how he is. If it is all right, tell him
that I'd like to have him escort Miss Winslow and her aunt here,
to-night. Meanwhile I shall find out how our friend the Boss is getting
on. He ought to be here, at any cost, and I've put it off until
to-night to make sure that he'll be in fit condition to come. To-night
at nine--here in this office--remember," he concluded gayly. "In the
meantime, not a word to anybody about what you have seen here this
afternoon."




CHAPTER XXV

THE SCIENTIFIC GUNMAN


Our little audience arrived one by one, and, as master of ceremonies,
it fell to me to greet them and place them as much at ease as the
natural tension of the occasion would permit. Garrick spoke a word or
two to each, but was still busy putting the finishing touches on the
preparations for the "entertainment," as he called it facetiously,
which he had arranged.

"Before I put to the test a rather novel combination which I have
arranged," began Garrick, when they had all been seated, "I want to say
a few words about some of the discoveries I have already made in this
remarkable case."

He paused a moment to make sure that he had our attention, but it was
unnecessary. We were all hanging eagerly on his words.

"There is, I believe," he resumed slowly, "no crime that is ever
without a clew. The slightest trace, even a drop of blood no larger
than a pin-head, may suffice to convict a murderer. So may a single
hair found on the clothing of a suspect. In this case," he added
quickly, "it is the impression made by the hammer of a pistol on the
shell of a cartridge which leads unescapably to one conclusion."

The idea was so startling that we followed Garrick's every word as if
weighted with tremendous importance, as indeed it was in the clearing
up of this mysterious affair.

"I have made a collection from time to time," he pursued, "of the
various exploded cartridges, the bullets, and the weapons left behind
by the perpetrator of the dastardly series of crimes, from the shooting
of the stool pigeon of the police, Rena Taylor, and the stealing of Mr.
Warrington's car, down to the peculiar events of last night up in the
Ramapos and the running fight through the streets of New York in
taxicabs this morning.

"I have studied this evidence with the microscope and the
microphotographic apparatus. I have secured excellent microphotographs
of the marks made by various weapons on the cartridges and bullets.
Taking those used in the commission of the greater crimes in this
series, I find that the marks are the same, apparently, whether the gun
shot off a bullet of wax or tallow which became liquid in the body,
whether it discharged a stupefying gas, or whether the deadly
anaesthetic bullet was fired. I have obtained a gun"--he threw it on
the table with a clang--"the marks from the hammer of which correspond
with the marks made on all the cartridges I have mentioned. One person
owned that gun and used it. That is proved. It remains only to connect
that gun positively and definitely, as a last link, with that person."

I noticed with a start that the revolver still had a stout cord tied to
it.

As he concluded, Garrick had begun fitting a curious little device to
each of our forearms. It looked to me like an electrode consisting of
large plates of German silver, covered with felt and saturated with
salt solution. From each electrode wires ran across the floor to some
hidden apparatus.

"Back of this screen," he went on, indicating it in the corner of the
room, "I have placed what is known as the string galvanometer,
invented, or, perhaps better, perfected by Dr. Einthoven, of Leyden. It
was designed primarily for the study of the beating of the heart in
cases of disease, but it also may be used to record and study emotions
as well,--love and hate, fear, joy, anger, remorse, all are revealed by
this uncanny, cold, ruthlessly scientific instrument.

"The machine is connected by wires to each of you, and will make what
are called electrocardiographs, in which every emotion, every
sentiment, every passion is recorded inevitably, inexorably. For, the
electric current that passes from each of you to the machine over these
wires carrying the record of the secrets of your hearts is one of the
feeblest currents known to science. Yet it can be caught and measured.
The dynamo which generates this current is not a huge affair of steel
castings and endless windings of copper wire. It is merely the heart of
the sitter.

"The heart makes only one three-thousandth of a volt of electricity at
each beat. It would take thousands of hearts to light one electric
light, hundreds of thousands to run one trolley car. Yet just that
slight little current from the heart is enough to sway a gossamer
strand of quartz fibre in what I may call my 'heart station' here. This
current, as I have told you, passes from each of you over a wire and
vibrates a fine quartz fibre in unison with it, one of the most
delicate bits of mechanism ever made, recording the result on a
photographic film by means of a beam of light reflected from a delicate
mirror."

We sat spellbound as Garrick unfolded the dreadful, awe-inspiring
possibilities of the machine behind the screen. He walked slowly to the
back of the room.

"Now, here I have one of the latest of the inventions of the Wizard of
West Orange--Edison," he resumed. "It is, as you perhaps have already
guessed, the latest product of this genius of sound and sight, the
kinetophone, the machine that combines moving pictures with the talking
machine."

A stranger stepped in from an outer office. He was the skilled operator
of the kinetophone, whom Garrick had hired. In a few terse sentences he
explained that back of a curtain which he pulled down before us was a
phonograph with a megaphone, that from his booth behind us he operated
the picture films, and that the two were absolutely synchronized.

A moment later a picture began to move on the screen. Sounds and voices
seemed to emerge as if from the very screen itself. There, before us,
we saw a gambling joint operating in full blast. It was not the
Forty-eighth Street resort. But it was strongly reminiscent of it. From
the talking machine proceeded all the noises familiar to such a scene.

Garrick had moved behind the screen that cut off our view of the
galvanometer. One after another, he was studying the emotions of each
of his audience.

Suddenly the scene changed. A door was burst in, cards and gambling
paraphernalia were scattered about and hidden, men rushed to escape,
and the sounds were much like those on the night of the raid. Garrick
was still engrossed in the study of what the galvanometer was showing.

The film stopped. Without warning, the operator started another. It was
a group of men and women playing cards. A man entered, and engaged in
conversation with one of the women who was playing. They left the room.

The next scene was in an entirely different room. But the connection
which was implied with the last scene was obvious. Different actors
entered the room, a man and a woman. There was a dispute--there was a
crack of a revolver--and the woman fell. People rushed in. Everything
was done to hide the crime. The girl was carried out into a waiting
automobile, propped in as if overcome by alcohol and whisked away. I
found myself almost looking to see if the car was of the make of
Warrington's, so great was the impression the scene made on me. Of
course it was not, but it all seemed so real that one might be pardoned
for expecting the impossible, especially when her body was thrown, with
many a muttered imprecation, by the roadside, and in the last picture
the man was cleaning the exploded gun. One single still picture
followed. It was a huge, enlarged cartridge.

I followed the thing with eager eyes and ears. From a long list of
canned and reeled plays, Garrick had selected here and there such
scenes and acts as, interspersed with a few single, original pictures
of his own, like the cartridge, would serve best to recapitulate the
very case which we had been investigating. It carried me along step by
step, wonderfully.

Another moving and talking picture was under way. This time it seemed
to be a race between two automobiles. They were tearing along, and the
sound of the rapidly working cylinders was most real. The rearmost was
rapidly overhauling that in front. Imagine our surprise as it crept up
on the other to see the driver rise, whip out a pistol, and fire point
blank at the other as he dashed ahead, and the picture stopped.

A suppressed scream escaped Violet Winslow. It was too much like what
had happened to Mortimer Warrington for her to repress the shudder that
swept over her, and an involuntary movement toward him to make sure
that it was not real.

Still Garrick did not move from his post at the galvanometer. He was
taking no chances. He had us thrilled, tense, and he meant to take
advantage to the full in reading the truth in the dramatic situation he
had so skilfully created.

Another picture started almost on the heels of the last. It was of the
robbery of a safe. Then came another, a firebug at work in starting a
conflagration. We could hear the crackling of flames, the shouts of the
people, the clang of bells, and the hasty tread of the firemen as they
advanced and put out the blaze. The film play was one of those which
never fail to attract, where the makers had gone to the utmost extent
of realism and had actually set fire to a house to get the true effect.

The next was a scene from a detective play, pure and simple, in which
that marvellous little instrument which had served us in such good
stead in this case was played up strongly, the detectaphone. Then
followed a scene from another play in which a young girl was kidnapped
and rescued by her lover just in the nick of time. Nothing could have
been selected to arouse the feelings of the little audience to a higher
pitch.

The last of the series, which I knew was to be a climax, was not an
American picture. It was quite evidently made in Paris and was from
actual life. I myself had been startled when the title was announced by
the voice and on the screen simultaneously, "The Siege of the Motor
Bandits by the Paris Police."

It was terrific. It began with the shouts of the crowd urging on the
police, the crack of revolvers and guns from a little house or garage
in the suburbs, the advance and retreat of the gendarmes on the
stronghold. Back and forth the battle waged. One could hear the sharp
orders of the police, the shrill taunts of the bandits, the sounds of
battle.

Then at a point where the bandits seemed to have beaten off the attack
successfully, there came an automobile. From it I could see the police
take an object which I now knew must be a Mathiot gun. The huge thing
was set up and carefully aimed. Then with a dull roar it was fired.

We could see the bomb hurtling through the air, see it strike the
little house with a cloud of smoke and dust, hear the report of the
explosion, the shouts of dismay of the bandits--then silence. A cry
went up from the crowd as the police now pressed forward in a mass and
rushed into the house, disclosing the last scene--in which the bandits
were suffocated.

The film suddenly stopped. Garrick's office, which had been ringing
with firearms and shouts from the kinetophone, was again silent. It was
an impressive silence, too. No one of us but had felt and lived the
whole case over again in the brief time that the talking movies had
been shown.

The lights flashed up, and before we realised that the thing was over,
Garrick was standing before us, holding in his hand a long sheet of
paper. The look on his face told plainly that his novel experiment had
succeeded.

"I may say," he began, still studying the paper in his hand, although I
knew he must have arrived at his conclusion already or he would never
have quitted his "heart station," so soon, "I may say that some time
ago a letter was sent to Miss Winslow purporting to reveal some of Mr.
Warrington's alleged connections and escapades. It is needless to say
that as far as the accusations were concerned he was able to meet them
all adequately and, as for the innuendoes, they were pure baseless
fabrications. The sender was urged on to do it by someone else who also
had an interest of another kind in placing Mr. Warrington in a bad
light with Miss Winslow. But the sender soon realised his mistake. The
fact that he was willing to go to the length of a dangerous robbery
accompanied by arson in order to get back or destroy the letter showed
how afraid he was to have a sample of his handwriting fall into my
hands. He blundered, but even then he did not realise how badly.

"For, in certain cases the handwriting shows a great deal more than
would be recognised even by the ordinary handwriting expert. This
letter showed that the writer was, as I have already explained to Mr.
Marshall, the victim of a peculiar kind of paralysis which begins to
show itself in nerve tremours for days before the attack and exhibits
itself even in the handwriting.

"Now, my string galvanometer shows not only the effects of these moving
and talking pictures on the emotions, but also, as it was really
designed to do, the state of the heart with reference to normality. It
shows to me plainly the effect of disease on the heart, even if it is
latent in the subject. While I have been using the psychological law of
suggestion, and have been recapitulating as well as I was able under
the circumstances the whole story of the crime briefly in moving and
talking pictures, I have found, in addition, that the same heart which
shows the emotions I expected also shows the disease which I discovered
in the blackmailing letter.

"There was surprise at the sight of the gambling den, rage at the raid,
fear at the murder of the girl in the other den and the disposal of her
body, excitement over the racing motor cars, passion over the
kidnapping of the girl, anger over the little detectaphone, and panic
at the siege of the bandits, as I showed by the selection of the films
that I was getting closer and closer to the truth. And there was the
same abnormality of the heart exhibited throughout."

Garrick paused. I scarcely breathed, nor did I move my eyes, which were
riveted on his face. What was he going to reveal next? Was he going to
accuse someone in the room?

"Mr. Marshall," he resumed with a smile toward me, "I am glad to say is
quite normal and innocent of all wrongdoing--in this instance," he
added with a momentary flash of humour. "Commissioner Dillon also
passes muster. Mr. Warrington--I shall come back to, later."

I thought Violet Winslow gave a little, startled gasp. She turned
toward him, anyhow, and I saw that not even science now could shake her
faith in him.

"Mr. Forbes," he continued, speaking rapidly as I bent forward to catch
every word, "incriminated himself quite sufficiently in connection with
the gambling joint, the raid and the slanderous letter, so that I
should advise him when this case comes to trial to tell the whole truth
and nothing but the truth about his helping a gunman in order to
further what proved a hopeless love affair on his own part. Here, too,
is a little vest-pocket gun that was found under such circumstances as
would be likely to connect Forbes in the popular mind with the
shootings."

"My lawyer has my statement about that. I'll read--"

"No, Forbes," interrupted Garrick. "You needn't read. Your lawyer may
be interested to add this to the statement, however. A pistol that has
been shot off has potassium sulphide from the powder in the barrel.
Later, it oxidizes and iron oxide is found. This weapon has neither the
sulphide nor the oxide, as far as I can determine. It has never even
been discharged. No, it was not the pistol found on Forbes that figured
in this case.

"As far as that new-fangled gun goes, Forbes, it was a frame-up. You
were kidnapped by a man whom you thought was your friend, and it was
done for a purpose. He knew the situation you were in, your jealousy--I
won't dwell on that here. He held you at the house up in the valley.
You told the truth about that. He did it, the man who wrote the letter,
because he hoped ultimately to shift all the guilt on you and himself
go scot-free."

Forbes stared dumbly. I knew he had known what was coming but had held
back for fear of what he knew had always happened to informers in the
circle to which he had sunk.

"McBirney," continued Garrick, "your emotions, mostly astonishment,
show that you have much to learn in this new business of modern
detection, besides the recovery of stolen cars."

Garrick had paused for effect again.

"And now we come to the keeper of a nighthawk garage on the West Side,
a man whom they seem to call the Boss. That is getting higher up. I
find that he points, according to this scientific third degree, to one
whom I have for a long time suspected--"

A dull thud startled us.

I turned. A man was lying, face down, on the floor.

Before any of us could reach him, Garrick concluded, "This is the man
who framed up the case against Forbes, who stole Warrington's car to
use to get rid of the body of the informer, Rena Taylor, because she by
her success interfered with his gambling graft, who wrote the letter to
Miss Winslow to injure Warrington because he, too, was interfering with
his graft collection from the gambling house by threatening to close it
up. He committed the arson to cover up his identity by getting back the
letter; he planned and nearly executed the kidnapping of Miss Winslow
in order to hold up Warrington, and then hid in the country where we
ferreted him out, not far from the very scene of a murderous attack on
Warrington for his brave stand in suppressing gambling--from which this
man was weekly shaking down a huge profit as the price of police
protection of the vice."

Garrick was kneeling by the prostrate form now, not so much the accuser
as the scientist, studying a new phase of crime.

The threatened paralysis had struck Inspector Herman sooner than even
Garrick had expected.

When we had made Herman as comfortable as we could, Garrick added to
Dillon, who stood over us, speechless, "You had under you one of the
strong links in the secret system of police protection of vice and
crime, and you never knew it--the greatest grafter and scientific
gunman that I ever knew. It has been a long, hard fight. But I have the
goods on him at last."

The exposure was startling in the extreme. Herman had gained for
himself the reputation of being one of the shrewdest and most efficient
men in the department. But he had felt the lure of graft. With the aid
of the gamblers and unscrupulous politicians he had built up a huge,
secret machine for collection of the profits from the sale of police
protection against the enforcement of the law he was sworn to uphold.

He had begun to mix with doubtful characters. But he was a genius and
had become, by degrees, the worst of the gangmen and gunmen who ever
operated in the metropolis. Detailed to catch the gamblers and
gangsters, with official power to do almost as he pleased, he had
enjoyed a fine holiday and employed his leisure both for new crimes and
in covering up so successfully his tracks in the old ones, even with
Garrick on his trail, that he had been able to completely hoodwink his
superior, Dillon, by his long, detailed reports which sounded very
convincing but which really meant nothing.

As the strange truth of the case was established by Garrick, Dillon was
the most amazed of us all. He had trusted Herman, and the revulsion of
feeling was overwhelming.

"And to think," he exclaimed, in disgust, "that I actually placed his
own case in his own hands, with carte blanche instructions to go ahead.
No wonder he never produced a clew that amounted to anything. Well,
I'll be--"

Words failed him, as he looked down and glared savagely at the man in
silence.

All were now crowding around Garrick eager to thank him for what he had
done. As Warrington, now almost his former hearty wholesome self again,
grasped Garrick's hand in the heartiness of his thanks, Garrick, with
the electrocardiogram paper still in his other hand, smiled.

He released himself and turned to touch the dainty little hand of
Violet Winslow, whose eyes were so full of happy tears that she could
scarcely speak.

"Miss Winslow," he beamed, gazing earnestly and admiringly into her
sweet face, "I promised to attend to the case of that man later,--" he
added, with a nod at Warrington. "It may interest you to know
scientifically what you already know by something that is greater than
science, a woman's intuition."

She blushed as he added, "Mr. Warrington has a good, strong, healthy
heart. He wouldn't be alive to-day if he hadn't. But, more than that, I
have observed throughout the evening that he has hardly taken his eyes
off you. Even the 'talkies' and the 'movies' failed to stir him until
the kidnapping scene overwhelmed him. Here on this strip of paper I
have a billet-doux. His heart registers the current that only that
consummate electrician, little Dan Cupid, can explain."
﻿I was shocked this morning when I saw in my newspaper a paragraph
announcing his sudden death.  I do not say that the shock was very
disagreeable.  One reads a newspaper for the sake of news.  Had I never
met James Pethel, belike I should never have heard of him: and my
knowledge of his death, coincident with my knowledge that he had
existed, would have meant nothing at all to me.  If you learn suddenly
that one of your friends is dead, you are wholly distressed.  If the
death is that of a mere acquaintance whom you have recently seen, you
are disconcerted, pricked is your sense of mortality; but you do find
great solace in telling other people that you met "the poor fellow"
only the other day, and that he was "so full of life and spirits," and
that you remember he said--whatever you may remember of his sayings.
If the death is that of a mere acquaintance whom you have not seen for
years, you are touched so lightly as to find solace enough in even such
faded reminiscence as is yours to offer.  Seven years have passed since
the day when last I saw James Pethel, and that day was the morrow of my
first meeting with him.

I had formed the habit of spending August in Dieppe.  The place was
then less overrun by trippers than it is now.  Some pleasant English
people shared it with some pleasant French people.  We used rather to
resent the race-week--the third week of the month--as an intrusion on
our privacy.  We sneered as we read in the Paris edition of "The New
York Herald" the names of the intruders, though by some of these we
were secretly impressed.  We disliked the nightly crush in the
baccarat-room of the casino, and the croupiers' obvious excitement at
the high play.  I made a point of avoiding that room during that week,
for the special reason that the sight of serious, habitual gamblers has
always filled me with a depression bordering on disgust.  Most of the
men, by some subtle stress of their ruling passion, have grown so
monstrously fat, and most of the women so harrowingly thin.  The rest
of the women seem to be marked out for apoplexy, and the rest of the
men to be wasting away.  One feels that anything thrown at them would
be either embedded or shattered, and looks vainly among them for one
person furnished with a normal amount of flesh.  Monsters they are, all
of them, to the eye, though I believe that many of them have excellent
moral qualities in private life; but just as in an American town one
goes sooner or later--goes against one's finer judgment, but somehow
goes--into the dime-museum, so year by year, in Dieppe's race-week,
there would be always one evening when I drifted into the
baccarat-room.  It was on such an evening that I first saw the man
whose memory I here celebrate.  My gaze was held by him for the very
reason that he would have passed unnoticed elsewhere.  He was
conspicuous not in virtue of the mere fact that he was taking the bank
at the principal table, but because there was nothing at all odd about
him.

He alone, among his fellow-players, looked as if he were not to die
before the year was out.  Of him alone I said to myself that he was
destined to die normally at a ripe old age.  Next day, certainly, I
would not have made this prediction, would not have "given" him the
seven years that were still in store for him, nor the comparatively
normal death that has been his.  But now, as I stood opposite to him,
behind the croupier, I was refreshed by my sense of his wholesome
durability.  Everything about him, except the amount of money he had
been winning, seemed moderate.  Just as he was neither fat nor thin, so
had his face neither that extreme pallor nor that extreme redness which
belongs to the faces of seasoned gamblers: it was just a clear pink.
And his eyes had neither the unnatural brightness nor the unnatural
dullness of the eyes about him: they were ordinarily clear eyes, of an
ordinary gray.  His very age was moderate: a putative thirty-six, not
more.  ("Not less," I would have said in those days.) He assumed no air
of nonchalance.  He did not deal out the cards as though they bored
him, but he had no look of grim concentration.  I noticed that the
removal of his cigar from his mouth made never the least difference to
his face, for he kept his lips pursed out as steadily as ever when he
was not smoking.  And this constant pursing of his lips seemed to
denote just a pensive interest.

His bank was nearly done now; there were only a few cards left.
Opposite to him was a welter of party-colored counters that the
croupier had not yet had time to sort out and add to the rouleaux
already made; there were also a fair accumulation of notes and several
little stacks of gold--in all, not less than five-hundred pounds,
certainly.  Happy banker!  How easily had he won in a few minutes more
than I, with utmost pains, could win in many months!  I wished I were
he.  His lucre seemed to insult me personally.  I disliked him, and yet
I hoped he would not take another bank.  I hoped he would have the good
sense to pocket his winnings and go home.  Deliberately to risk the
loss of all those riches would intensify the insult to me.

"Messieurs, la banque est aux encheres."  There was some brisk bidding
while the croupier tore open and shuffled two new packs.  But it was as
I feared: the gentleman whom I resented kept his place.

"Messieurs, la banque est faite.  Quinze-mille francs a la banque.
Messieurs, les cartes passent.  Messieurs, les cartes passent."

Turning to go, I encountered a friend, one of the race-weekers, but in
a sense a friend.

"Going to play?" I asked.

"Not while Jimmy Pethel's taking the bank," he answered, with a laugh.

"Is that the man's name?"

"Yes.  Don't you know him?  I thought every one knew old Jimmy Pethel."

I asked what there was so wonderful about "old Jimmy Pethel" that every
one should be supposed to know him.

"Oh, he's a great character.  Has extraordinary luck--always."

I do not think my friend was versed in the pretty theory that good luck
is the subconscious wisdom of them who in previous incarnations have
been consciously wise.  He was a member of the stock exchange, and I
smiled as at a certain quaintness in his remark.  I asked in what ways
besides luck the "great character" was manifested.  Oh, well, Pethel
had made a huge "scoop" on the stock exchange when he was only
twenty-three, and very soon had doubled that and doubled it again; then
retired.  He wasn't more than thirty-five now, And then?  Oh, well, he
was a regular all-round sportsman; had gone after big game all over the
world and had a good many narrow shaves.  Great steeple-chaser, too.
Rather settled down now.  Lived in Leicestershire mostly.  Had a big
place there.  Hunted five times a week.  Still did an occasional
flutter, though.  Cleared eighty-thousand in Mexicans last February.
Wife had been a barmaid at Cambridge; married her when he was nineteen.
Thing seemed to have turned out quite well.  Altogether, a great
character.

Possibly, thought I.  But my cursory friend, accustomed to quick
transactions and to things accepted "on the nod," had not proved his
case to my slower, more literary intelligence.  It was to him, though,
that I owed, some minutes later, a chance of testing his opinion.  At
the cry of "Messieurs, la banque est aux encheres," we looked round and
saw that the subject of our talk was preparing to rise from his place.
"Now one can punt," said Grierson (this was my friend's name), and
turned to the bureau at which counters are for sale.  "If old Jimmy
Pethel punts," he added, "I shall just follow his luck."  But this
lode-star was not to be.  While my friend was buying his counters, and
I was wondering whether I, too, could buy some, Pethel himself came up
to the bureau.  With his lips no longer pursed, he had lost his air of
gravity, and looked younger.  Behind him was an attendant bearing a big
wooden bowl--that plain, but romantic, bowl supplied by the
establishment to a banker whose gains are too great to be pocketed.  He
and Grierson greeted each other.  He said he had arrived in Dieppe this
afternoon, was here for a day or two.  We were introduced.  He spoke to
me with empressement, saying he was a "very great admirer" of my work.
I no longer disliked him.  Grierson, armed with counters, had now
darted away to secure a place that had just been vacated.  Pethel, with
a wave of his hand toward the tables, said:

"I suppose you never condescend to this sort of thing."

"Well--" I smiled indulgently.

"Awful waste of time," he admitted.

I glanced down at the splendid mess of counters and gold and notes that
were now becoming, under the swift fingers of the little man at the
bureau, an orderly array.  I did not say aloud that it pleased me to
be, and to be seen, talking on terms of equality to a man who had won
so much.  I did not say how wonderful it seemed to me that he, whom I
had watched just now with awe and with aversion, had all the while been
a great admirer of my work.  I did but say, again indulgently, that I
supposed baccarat to be as good a way of wasting time as another.

"Ah, but you despise us all the same."  He added that he always envied
men who had resources within themselves.  I laughed lightly, to imply
that it WAS very pleasant to have such resources, but that I didn't
want to boast.  And, indeed, I had never felt humbler, flimsier, than
when the little man at the bureau, naming a fabulous sum, asked its
owner whether he would take the main part in notes of mille francs,
cinq-mille, dix-mille--quoi? Had it been mine, I should have asked to
have it all in five-franc pieces.  Pethel took it in the most
compendious form, and crumpled it into his pocket.  I asked if he were
going to play any more to-night.

"Oh, later on," he said.  "I want to get a little sea air into my lungs
now."  He asked, with a sort of breezy diffidence, if I would go with
him.  I was glad to do so.  It flashed across my mind that yonder on
the terrace he might suddenly blurt out: "I say, look here, don't think
me awfully impertinent, but this money's no earthly use to me.  I do
wish you'd accept it as a very small return for all the pleasure your
work has given me, and--  There, PLEASE! Not another word!"--all with
such candor, delicacy, and genuine zeal that I should be unable to
refuse.  But I must not raise false hopes in my reader.  Nothing of the
sort happened.  Nothing of that sort ever does happen.

We were not long on the terrace.  It was not a night on which you could
stroll and talk; there was a wind against which  you had to stagger,
holding your hat on tightly, and shouting such remarks as might occur
to you.  Against that wind acquaintance could make no headway.  Yet I
see now that despite that wind, or, rather, because of it, I ought
already to have known Pethel a little better than I did when we
presently sat down together inside the cafe of the casino.  There had
been a point in our walk, or our stagger, when we paused to lean over
the parapet, looking down at the black and driven sea.  And Pethel had
shouted that it would be great fun to be out in a sailing-boat
to-night, and that at one time he had been very fond of sailing.

As we took our seats in the cafe, he looked about him with boyish
interest and pleasure; then squaring his arms on the little table, he
asked me what I would drink.  I protested that I was the host, a
position which he, with the quick courtesy of the very rich, yielded to
me at once.  I feared he would ask for champagne, and was gladdened by
his demand for water.

"Apollinaris, St. Galmier, or what?" I asked.  He preferred plain
water.  I ventured to warn him that such water was never "safe" in
these places.  He said he had often heard that, but would risk it.  I
remonstrated, but he was firm.  "Alors," I told the waiter, "pour
Monsieur un verre de l'eau fraiche, et pour moi un demi blonde."

Pethel asked me to tell him who every one was.  I told him no one was
any one in particular, and suggested that we should talk about
ourselves.

"You mean," he laughed, "that you want to know who the devil I am?"

I assured him that I had often heard of him.  At this he was
unaffectedly pleased.

"But," I added, "it's always more interesting to hear a man talked
about by himself."  And indeed, since he had NOT handed his winnings
over to me, I did hope he would at any rate give me some glimpses into
that "great character" of his.  Full though his life had been, he
seemed but like a rather clever schoolboy out on a holiday.  I wanted
to know more.

"That beer looks good," he admitted when the waiter came back.  I asked
him to change his mind, but he shook his head, raised to his lips the
tumbler of water that had been placed before him, and meditatively
drank a deep draft.  "I never," he then said, "touch alcohol of any
sort." He looked solemn; but all men do look solemn when they speak of
their own habits, whether positive or negative, and no matter how
trivial; and so, though I had really no warrant for not supposing him a
reclaimed drunkard, I dared ask him for what reason he abstained.

"When I say I NEVER touch alcohol," he said hastily, in a tone as of
self-defense, "I mean that I don't touch it often, or, at any
rate--well, I never touch it when I'm gambling, you know.  It--it takes
the edge off."

His tone did make me suspicious.  For a moment I wondered whether he
had married the barmaid rather for what she symbolized than for what in
herself she was.  But no, surely not; he had been only nineteen years
old.  Nor in any way had he now, this steady, brisk, clear-eyed fellow,
the aspect of one who had since fallen.

"The edge off the excitement?" I asked.

"Rather.  Of course that sort of excitement seems awfully stupid to
YOU; but--no use denying it--I do like a bit of a flutter, just
occasionally, you know.  And one has to be in trim for it.  Suppose a
man sat down dead-drunk to a game of chance, what fun would it be for
him?  None.  And it's only a question of degree.  Soothe yourself ever
so little with alcohol, and you don't get QUITE the full sensation of
gambling.  You do lose just a little something of the proper tremors
before a coup, the proper throes during a coup, the proper thrill of
joy or anguish after a coup.  You're bound to, you know," he added,
purposely making this bathos when he saw me smiling at the heights to
which he had risen.

"And to-night," I asked, remembering his prosaically pensive demeanor
in taking the bank, "were you feeling these throes and thrills to the
utmost?"


He nodded.

"And you'll feel them again to-night?"

"I hope so."

"I wonder you can stay away."

"Oh, one gets a bit deadened after an hour or so.  One needs to be
freshened up.  So long as I don't bore you--"

I laughed, and held out my cigarette-case.

"I rather wonder you smoke," I murmured, after giving him a light.
"Nicotine's a sort of drug.  Doesn't it soothe you?  Don't you lose
just a little something of the tremors and things?"

He looked at me gravely.

"By Jove!" he ejaculated, "I never thought of that.  Perhaps you're
right.  'Pon my word, I must think that over."

I wondered whether he were secretly laughing at me.  Here was a man to
whom--so I conceived, with an effort of the imagination--the loss or
gain of a few hundred pounds could hardly matter.  I told him I had
spoken in jest.  "To give up tobacco might," I said, "intensify the
pleasant agonies of a gambler staking his little all.  But in your
case--well, I don't see where the pleasant agonies come in."

"You mean because I'm beastly rich?"

"Rich," I amended.

"All depends on what you call rich.  Besides, I'm not the sort of
fellow who's content with three per cent.  A couple of months ago--I
tell you this in confidence--I risked virtually all I had in an
Argentine deal."

"And lost it?"

"No; as a matter of fact, I made rather a good thing out of it.  I did
rather well last February, too.  But there's no knowing the future.  A
few errors of judgment, a war here, a revolution there, a big strike
somewhere else, and--" He blew a jet of smoke from his lips, and then
looked at me as at one whom he could trust to feel for him in a crash
already come.

My sympathy lagged, and I stuck to the point of my inquiry.

"Meanwhile," I suggested, "and all the more because you aren't merely a
rich man, but also an active taker of big risks, how can these tiny
little baccarat risks give you so much emotion?"

"There you rather have me," he laughed.  "I've often wondered at that
myself.  I suppose," he puzzled it out, "I do a good lot of
make-believe.  While I'm playing a game like this game to-night, I
IMAGINE the stakes are huge.  And I IMAGINE I haven't another penny in
the world."

"Ah, so that with you it's always a life-and-death affair?"

He looked away.

"Oh, no, I don't say that."

"Stupid phrase," I admitted.  "But"--there was yet one point I would
put to him--"if you have extraordinary luck always--"

"There's no such thing as luck."

"No, strictly, I suppose, there isn't.  But if in point of fact you
always do win, then--well, surely, perfect luck driveth out fear."

"Who ever said I always won?" he asked sharply.

I waved my hands and said, "Oh, you have the reputation, you know, for
extraordinary luck."

"That isn't the same thing as always winning.  Besides, I HAVEN'T
extraordinary luck, never HAVE had.  Good heavens!" he exclaimed, "if I
thought I had any more chance of winning than of losing, I'd--I'd--"

"Never again set foot in that baccarat-room to-night," I soothingly
suggested.

"Oh, baccarat be blowed!  I wasn't thinking of baccarat.  I was
thinking of--oh, lots of things; baccarat included, yes."

"What things?" I ventured to ask.

"What things?"  He pushed back his chair.  "Look here," he said with a
laugh, "don't pretend I haven't been boring your head off with all this
talk about myself.  You've been too patient.  I'm off.  Shall I see you
to-morrow?  Perhaps you'd lunch with us to-morrow?  It would be a great
pleasure for my wife.  We're at the Grand Hotel."

I said I should be most happy, and called the waiter; at sight of whom
my friend said he had talked himself thirsty, and asked for another
glass of water.  He mentioned that he had brought his car over with
him: his little daughter (by the news of whose existence I felt
idiotically surprised) was very keen on motoring, and they were all
three starting the day after to-morrow on a little tour through France.
Afterward they were going on to Switzerland "for some climbing."  Did I
care about motoring?  If so, we might go for a spin after luncheon, to
Rouen or somewhere.  He drank his glass of water, and, linking a
friendly arm in mine, passed out with me into the corridor.  He asked
what I was writing now, and said that he looked to me to "do something
big one of these days," and that he was sure I had it in me.  This
remark, though of course I pretended to be pleased by it, irritated me
very much.  It was destined, as you shall see, to irritate me very much
more in recollection.

Yet I was glad he had asked me to luncheon--glad because I liked him
and glad because I dislike mysteries.  Though you may think me very
dense for not having thoroughly understood Pethel in the course of my
first meeting with him, the fact is that I was only aware, and that
dimly, of something more in him than he had cared to reveal--some veil
behind which perhaps lurked his right to the title so airily bestowed
on him by Grierson.  I assured myself, as I walked home, that if veil
there was, I should to-morrow find an eyelet.  But one's intuition when
it is off duty seems always a much more powerful engine than it does on
active service; and next day, at sight of Pethel awaiting me outside
his hotel, I became less confident.  His, thought I, was a face which,
for all its animation, would tell nothing--nothing, at any rate, that
mattered.  It expressed well enough that he was pleased to see me; but
for the rest I was reminded that it had a sort of frank inscrutability.
Besides, it was at all points so very usual a face--a face that
couldn't (so I then thought), even if it had leave to, betray
connection with a "great character."  It was a strong face, certainly;
but so are yours and mine.

And very fresh it looked, though, as he confessed, Pethel had sat up in
"that beastly baccarat-room" till five A.M.  I asked, had he lost?
Yes, he had lost steadily for four hours (proudly he laid stress on
this), but in the end--well, he had won it all back "and a bit more."
"By the way," he murmured as we were about to enter the hall, "don't
ever happen to mention to my wife what I told you about that Argentine
deal.  She's always rather nervous about--investments.  I don't tell
her about them.  She's rather a nervous woman altogether, I'm sorry to
say."

This did not square with my preconception of her.  Slave that I am to
traditional imagery, I had figured her as "flaunting," as
golden-haired, as haughty to most men, but with a provocative smile
across the shoulder for some.  Nor, indeed, did her husband's words
save me the suspicion that my eyes deceived me when anon I was
presented to a very pale, small lady whose hair was rather white than
gray.  And the "little daughter!"  This prodigy's hair was as yet
"down," but looked as if it might be up at any moment: she was nearly
as tall as her father, whom she very much resembled in face and figure
and heartiness of hand-shake.  Only after a rapid mental calculation
could I account for her.

"I must warn you, she's in a great rage this morning," said her father.
"Do try to soothe her."  She blushed, laughed, and bade her father not
be so silly.  I asked her the cause of her great rage.  She said:

"He only means I was disappointed.  And he was just as disappointed as
I was.  WEREN'T you, now, Father?"

"I suppose they meant well, Peggy," he laughed.

"They were QUITE right," said Mrs. Pethel, evidently not for the first
time.

"They," as I presently learned, were the authorities of the
bathing-establishment.  Pethel had promised his daughter he would take
her for a swim; but on their arrival at the bathing-cabins they were
ruthlessly told that bathing was defendu a cause du mauvais temps.
This embargo was our theme as we sat down to luncheon.  Miss Peggy was
of opinion that the French were cowards.  I pleaded for them that even
in English watering-places bathing was forbidden when the sea was VERY
rough.  She did not admit that the sea was very rough to-day.  Besides,
she appealed to me, where was the fun of swimming in absolutely calm
water?  I dared not say that this was the only sort of water I liked to
swim in.

"They were QUITE right," said Mrs. Pethel again.

"Yes, but, darling Mother, you can't swim.  Father and I are both
splendid swimmers."

To gloss over the mother's disability, I looked brightly at Pethel, as
though in ardent recognition of his prowess among waves.  With a
movement of his head he indicated his daughter--indicated that there
was no one like her in the whole world.  I beamed agreement.  Indeed, I
did think her rather nice.  If one liked the father (and I liked Pethel
all the more in that capacity), one couldn't help liking the daughter,
the two were so absurdly alike.  Whenever he was looking at her (and it
was seldom that he looked away from her), the effect, if you cared to
be fantastic, was that of a very vain man before a mirror.  It might
have occurred to me that, if there was any mystery in him, I could
solve it through her.  But, in point of fact, I had forgotten all about
that possible mystery.  The amateur detective was lost in the
sympathetic observer of a father's love.  That Pethel did love his
daughter I have never doubted.  One passion is not less true because
another predominates.  No one who ever saw that father with that
daughter could doubt that he loved her intensely.  And this intensity
gages for me the strength of what else was in him.

Mrs. Pethel's love, though less explicit, was not less evidently
profound.  But the maternal instinct is less attractive to an onlooker,
because he takes it more for granted than the paternal.  What endeared
poor Mrs. Pethel to me was--well, the inevitability of the epithet I
give her.  She seemed, poor thing, so essentially out of it; and by
"it" is meant the glowing mutual affinity of husband and child.  Not
that she didn't, in her little way, assert herself during the meal.
But she did so, I thought, with the knowledge that she didn't count,
and never would count.  I wondered how it was that she had, in that
Cambridge bar-room long ago, counted for Pethel to the extent of
matrimony.  But from any such room she seemed so utterly remote that
she might well be in all respects now an utterly changed woman.  She
did preeminently look as if much had by some means been taken out of
her, with no compensatory process of putting in.  Pethel looked so very
young for his age, whereas she would have had to be really old to look
young for hers.  I pitied her as one might a governess with two charges
who were hopelessly out of hand.  But a governess, I reflected, can
always give notice.  Love tied poor Mrs. Pethel fast to her present
situation.

As the three of them were to start next day on their tour through
France, and as the four of us were to make a tour to Rouen this
afternoon, the talk was much about motoring, a theme which Miss Peggy's
enthusiasm made almost tolerable.  I said to Mrs. Pethel, with more
good-will than truth, that I supposed she was "very keen on it."  She
replied that she was.

"But, darling Mother, you aren't.  I believe you hate it.  You're
ALWAYS asking father to go slower.  And what IS the fun of just
crawling along?"

"Oh, come, Peggy, we never crawl!" said her father.

"No, indeed," said her mother in a tone of which Pethel laughingly said
it would put me off coming out with them this afternoon.  I said, with
an expert air to reassure Mrs. Pethel, that it wasn't fast driving, but
only bad driving, that was a danger.

"There, Mother!" cried Peggy.  "Isn't that what we're always telling
you?"

I felt that they were always either telling Mrs. Pethel something or,
as in the matter of that intended bath, not telling her something.  It
seemed to me possible that Peggy advised her father about his
"investments."  I wondered whether they had yet told Mrs. Pethel of
their intention to go on to Switzerland for some climbing.

Of his secretiveness for his wife's sake I had a touching little
instance after luncheon.  We had adjourned to have coffee in front of
the hotel.  The car was already in attendance, and Peggy had darted off
to make her daily inspection of it.  Pethel had given me a cigar, and
his wife presently noticed that he himself was not smoking.  He
explained to her that he thought he had smoked too much lately, and
that he was going to "knock it off" for a while.  I would not have
smiled if he had met my eye, but his avoidance of it made me quite sure
that he really had been "thinking over" what I had said last night
about nicotine and its possibly deleterious action on the gambling
thrill.

Mrs. Pethel saw the smile that I could not repress.  I explained that I
was wishing _I_ could knock off tobacco, and envying her husband's
strength of character.  She smiled, too, but wanly, with her eyes on
him.

"Nobody has so much strength of character as he has," she said.

"Nonsense!" he laughed.  "I'm the weakest of men."

"Yes," she said quietly; "that's true, too, James."

Again he laughed, but he flushed.  I saw that Mrs. Pethel also had
faintly flushed, and I became horribly aware of following suit.  In the
sudden glow and silence created by Mrs. Pethel's paradox, I was
grateful to the daughter for bouncing back among us, and asking how
soon we should be ready to start.

Pethel looked at his wife, who looked at me and rather strangely asked
if I was sure I wanted to go with them.  I protested that of course I
did.  Pethel asked her if SHE really wanted to come.

"You see, dear, there was the run yesterday from Calais.  And to-morrow
you'll be on the road again, and all the days after."

"Yes," said Peggy; "I'm SURE you'd much rather stay at home, darling
Mother, and have a good rest."

"Shall we go and put on our things, Peggy?" replied Mrs. Pethel, rising
from her chair.  She asked her husband whether he was taking the
chauffeur with him.  He said he thought not.

"Oh, hurrah!" cried Peggy.  "Then I can be on the front seat!"

"No, dear," said her mother.  "I am sure Mr. Beerbohms would like to be
on the front seat."

"You'd like to be with mother, wouldn't you?" the girl appealed.  I
replied with all possible emphasis that I should like to be with Mrs.
Pethel.  But presently, when the mother and daughter reappeared in the
guise of motorists, it became clear that my aspiration had been set
aside.  "I am to be with mother," said Peggy.

I was inwardly glad that Mrs. Pethel could, after all, assert herself
to some purpose.  Had I thought she disliked me, I should have been
hurt; but I was sure her desire that I should not sit with her was due
merely to a belief that, in case of accident, a person on the front
seat was less safe than a person behind.  And of course I did not
expect her to prefer my life  to her daughter's.  Poor lady!  My heart
was with her.  As the car glided along the sea-front and then under the
Norman archway, through the town, and past the environs, I wished that
her husband inspired in her as much confidence as he did in me.  For me
the sight of his clear, firm profile (he did not wear motor-goggles)
was an assurance in itself.  From time to time (for I, too, was
ungoggled) I looked round to nod and smile cheerfully at his wife.  She
always returned the nod, but left the smile to be returned by the
daughter.

Pethel, like the good driver he was, did not talk; just drove.  But as
we came out on to the Rouen road he did say that in France he always
rather missed the British police-traps.  "Not," he added, "that I've
ever fallen into one.  But the chance that a policeman MAY at any
moment dart out, and land you in a bit of a scrape does rather add to
the excitement, don't you think?"  Though I answered in the tone of one
to whom the chance of a police-trap is the very salt of life, I did not
inwardly like the spirit of his remark.  However, I dismissed it from
my mind.  The sun was shining, and the wind had dropped: it was an
ideal day for motoring, and the Norman landscape had never looked
lovelier to me in its width of sober and silvery grace.


*The other names in this memoir are, for good reason, pseudonyms.


I presently felt that this landscape was not, after all, doing itself
full justice.  Was it not rushing rather too quickly past?  "James!"
said a shrill, faint voice from behind, and gradually--"Oh, darling
Mother, really!" protested another voice--the landscape slackened pace.
But after a while, little by little, the landscape lost patience,
forgot its good manners, and flew faster and faster than before.  The
road rushed furiously beneath us, like a river in spate.  Avenues of
poplars flashed past us, every tree of them on each side hissing and
swishing angrily in the draft we made.  Motors going Rouen-ward seemed
to be past as quickly as motors that bore down on us.  Hardly had I
espied in the landscape ahead a chateau or other object of interest
before I was craning my neck round for a final glimpse of it as it
faded on the backward horizon.  An endless uphill road was breasted and
crested in a twinkling and transformed into a decline near the end of
which our car leaped straight across to the opposite ascent,
and--"James!" again, and again by degrees the laws of nature were
reestablished, but again by degrees revoked.  I did not doubt that
speed in itself was no danger; but, when the road was about to make a
sharp curve, why shouldn't Pethel, just as a matter of form, slow down
slightly, and sound a note or two of the hooter?  Suppose another car
were--well, that was all right: the road was clear; but at the next
turning, when our car neither slackened nor hooted and WAS for an
instant full on the wrong side of the road, I had within me a
contraction which (at thought of what must have been if--) lasted
though all was well.  Loath to betray fear, I hadn't turned my face to
Pethel.  Eyes front!  And how about that wagon ahead, huge hay-wagon
plodding with its back to us, seeming to occupy whole road?  Surely
Pethel would slacken, hoot.  No.  Imagine a needle threaded with one
swift gesture from afar.  Even so was it that we shot, between wagon
and road's-edge, through; whereon, confronting us within a few
yards--inches now, but we swerved--was a cart that incredibly we grazed
not as we rushed on, on.  Now indeed I had turned my eyes on Pethel's
profile; and my eyes saw there that which stilled, with a greater
emotion, all fear and wonder in me.

I think that for the first instant, oddly, what I felt was merely
satisfaction, not hatred; for I all but asked him whether, by not
smoking to-day, he had got a keener edge to his thrills.  I understood
him, and for an instant this sufficed me.  Those pursed-out lips, so
queerly different from the compressed lips of the normal motorist, and
seeming, as elsewhere last night, to denote no more than pensive
interest, had told me suddenly all that I needed to know about Pethel.
Here, as there,--and, oh, ever so much better here than there!--he
could gratify the passion that was in him.  No need of any
"make-believe" here.  I remembered the queer look he had given when I
asked if his gambling were always "a life-and-death affair."  Here was
the real thing, the authentic game, for the highest stakes.  And here
was I, a little extra stake tossed on to the board. He had vowed I had
it in me to do "something big."  Perhaps, though, there had been a
touch of make-believe about that.  I am afraid it was not before my
thought about myself that my moral sense began to operate and my hatred
of Pethel set in.  Put it to my credit that I did see myself as a mere
detail in his villainy.  You deprecate the word "villainy"?  Understand
all, forgive all?  No doubt.  But between the acts of understanding and
forgiving an interval may sometimes be condoned.  Condone it in this
instance.  Even at the time I gave Pethel due credit for risking his
own life, for having doubtless risked it--it and none other--again and
again in the course of his adventurous (and abstemious) life by field
and flood.  I was even rather touched by memory of his insistence last
night on another glass of that water which just MIGHT give him typhoid;
rather touched by memory of his unsaying that he "never" touched
alcohol--he who, in point of fact, had to be ALWAYS gambling on
something or other.  I gave him due credit, too, for his devotion to
his daughter.  But his use of that devotion, his cold use of it to
secure for himself the utmost thrill of hazard, did seem utterly
abominable to me.

And it was even more for the mother than for the daughter that I was
incensed.  That daughter did not know him, did but innocently share his
damnable love of chances; but that wife had for years known him at
least as well as I knew him now.  Here again I gave him credit for
wishing, though he didn't love her, to spare her what he could.  That
he didn't love her I presumed from his indubitable willingness not to
stake her in this afternoon's game.  That he never had loved her--had
taken her in his precocious youth simply as a gigantic chance against
him, was likely enough.  So much the more credit to him for such
consideration as he showed her, though this was little enough.  He
could wish to save her from being a looker-on at his game, but he
could--he couldn't not--go on playing.  Assuredly she was right in
deeming him at once the strongest and the weakest of men.  "Rather a
nervous woman!"  I remembered an engraving that had hung in my room at
Oxford, and in scores of other rooms there: a presentment by Sir Marcus
(then Mr.) Stone of a very pretty young person in a Gainsborough hat,
seated beneath an ancestral elm, looking as though she were about to
cry, and entitled "A Gambler's Wife."  Mrs. Pethel was not like that.
Of her there were no engravings for undergraduate hearts to melt at.
But there was one man, certainly, whose compassion was very much at her
service.  How was he going to help her?

I know not how many hair's-breadth escapes we may have had while these
thoughts passed through my brain.  I had closed my eyes.  So
preoccupied was I that but for the constant rush of air against my face
I might, for aught I knew, have been sitting ensconced in an armchair
at home.  After a while I was aware that this rush had abated; I opened
my eyes to the old familiar streets of Rouen.  We were to have tea at
the Hotel d'Angleterre.  What was to be my line of action?  Should I
take Pethel aside and say: "Swear to me, on your word of honor as a
gentleman, that you will never again touch the driving-gear, or
whatever you call it, of a motor-car.  Otherwise, I shall expose you to
the world.  Meanwhile, we shall return to Dieppe by train"?  He might
flush (for I knew him capable of flushing) as he asked me to explain.
And after?  He would laugh in my face.  He would advise me not to go
motoring any more.  He might even warn me not to go back to Dieppe in
one of those dangerous railway-trains.  He might even urge me to wait
until a nice Bath chair had been sent out for me from England.

I heard a voice (mine, alas!) saying brightly, "Well, here we are!"  I
helped the ladies to descend.  Tea was ordered.  Pethel refused that
stimulant and had a glass of water.  I had a liqueur brandy.  It was
evident to me that tea meant much to Mrs. Pethel.  She looked stronger
after her second cup, and younger after her third.  Still, it was my
duty to help her if I could.  While I talked and laughed, I did not
forget that.  But what on earth was I to do?  I am no hero.  I hate to
be ridiculous.  I am inveterately averse to any sort of fuss.  Besides,
how was I to be sure that my own personal dread of the return journey
hadn't something to do with my intention of tackling Pethel?  I rather
thought it had.  What this woman would dare daily because she was a
mother could not I dare once?  I reminded myself of this man's
reputation for invariable luck.  I reminded myself that he was an
extraordinarily skilful driver.  To that skill and luck I would pin my
faith.

What I seem to myself, do you ask of me?

But I answered your question a few lines back.  Enough that my faith
was rewarded: we did arrive safely in Dieppe.  I still marvel that we
did.

That evening, in the vestibule of the casino, Grierson came up to me.

"Seen Jimmy Pethel?" he asked.  "He was asking for you.  Wants to see
you particularly.  He's in the baccarat-room, punting, winning hand
over fist, OF course.  Said he'd seldom met a man he liked more than
you.  Great character, what?"

One is always glad to be liked, and I pleaded guilty to a moment's
gratification at the announcement that Pethel liked me.  But I did not
go and seek him in the baccarat-room.  A great character assuredly he
was, but of a kind with which (I say it at the risk of seeming
priggish) I prefer not to associate.

Why he had particularly wanted to see me was made clear in a note sent
by him to my room early next morning.  He wondered if I could be
induced to join them in their little tour.  He hoped I wouldn't think
it great cheek, his asking me.  He thought it might rather amuse me to
come.  It would be a very great pleasure to his wife.  He hoped I
wouldn't say no.  Would I send a line by bearer?  They would be
starting at three o'clock.  He was mine sincerely.

It was not too late to tackle him even now.  Should I go round to his
hotel?  I hesitated and--well, I told you at the outset that my last
meeting with him was on the morrow of my first.  I forget what I wrote
to him, but am sure that the excuse I made for myself was a good and
graceful one, and that I sent my kindest regards to Mrs. Pethel.  She
had not (I am sure of that, too) authorized her husband to say she
would like me to come with them.  Else would not the thought of her,
the pity of her, have haunted me, as it did for a very long time.  I do
not know whether she is still alive.  No mention is made of her in the
obituary notice which awoke these memories in me.  This notice I will,
however, transcribe, because it is, for all its crudeness of
phraseology, rather interesting both as an echo and as an
amplification.  Its title is "Death of Wealthy Aviator," and its text
is:


Wide-spread regret will be felt in Leicestershire at the tragic death
of Mr. James Pethel, who had long resided there and was very popular as
an all-round sportsman.  In recent years he had been much interested in
aviation, and had had a private aerodrome erected on his property.
Yesterday afternoon he fell down dead quite suddenly as he was
returning to his house, apparently in his usual health and spirits,
after descending from a short flight which despite a strong wind he had
made on a new type of aeroplane, and on which he was accompanied by his
married daughter and her infant son.  It is not expected that an
inquest will be necessary, as his physician, Dr. Saunders, has
certified death to be due to heart-disease, from which, it appears, the
deceased gentleman had been suffering for many years.  Dr. Saunders
adds that he had repeatedly warned deceased that any strain on the
nervous system might prove fatal.


Thus--for I presume that his ailment had its origin in his
habits--James Pethel did not, despite that merely pensive look of his,
live his life with impunity.  And by reason of that life he died.  As
for the manner of his death, enough that he did die.  Let not our
hearts be vexed that his great luck was with him to the end.﻿                              *CHAPTER I.*

                     *THE STUDENT AND THE ORATOR.*


When John Elbridge retired from the bench, the newspapers said that he
had been an honorable judge.  He was not a pioneer, but had come to
Chicago at a time which we now call an early day, when churches rang
their bells where now there is a jungle of trade, when the legs of the
Giant of the West were in the ache of "growing pains;" at a time when
none but the most visionary dreamed that a mud-hole full of old boots,
dead rats, cats, dogs, could ever be worth a million of dollars.
Elbridge came from Maryland, with a scant wardrobe, a lawyer’s diploma,
and the confident ambition of youth.  It was not long before he formed a
copartnership with a young man named Bodney, a Kentuckian, in whose mind
still lived the chimes of Henry Clay’s bells—a memory that not so much
fitted him to the law as it atuned him to oratory; but in those days the
bar could be eloquent without inviting the pitying smile which means,
"Oh, yes, it sounds all right, but it’s crude."  Elbridge was the
student of the firm, and Bodney the orator, not a bad combination in the
law at that time, for what one did not know the other was prepared to
assert.  They prospered in a way, but never had the forethought to
invest in the magic mud-hole; took wives unto themselves, and, in the
opinion of the "orator," settled down to dull and uneventful honesty.
The years, like racing horses, flew round and round the track, and a
palace of trade grew out of the mud-hole.  Bodney and his wife passed
away, leaving two children, a boy and a girl.  Elbridge had stood at the
bedside of his partner, who was following his wife into the eternal
shadow.  "Don’t worry about the children, Dan; they are mine," said the
"student," and the "orator" passed away in peace.  And they were his.
He took them to his home to be brother and sister to his son; and the
years raced round and round the track.

At the time of his retirement from the bench the Judge was asked why he
refused longer to serve the people.  "Because," said he, "I am beginning
to be afraid of my judgment; I am becoming too careful—like the old
engineer who can’t summon the nerve to bring his train in on time."

Mrs. Elbridge had been known as a local "beauty."  It was said that the
"orator" had rung his Henry Clay bells for her hand, and with
philosophy, a rare quality among orators, had accepted defeat, to spur
himself into another contest and to win a woman not unknown to "looks."
Rachel Fry, afterward Mrs. Elbridge, had written verses to sky tints and
lake hues, and the "student" believed that he had won her with a volume
of Keats, bound in blue, the color of one of her own lake odes.  And in
the reminiscent humor of his older days he was wont to laugh over it
until he himself was shot through with a metric thrill, when in measure
he strove to recall the past; and then she had the laugh on him.  It may
be a mere notion, but it seems that the young doctor and the old lawyer
are much inclined to write verses, for among the papers of many an aged
jurist sonnets are found, and editors are well acquainted with the
beguiling smile of the young physician.  So the "pink fleece of the
cloud-sheep," and the "blue, mysterious soul of the lake," inspirations
of the "beauty’s" earlier years, found sympathy in the "student’s"
"mellow morning of sunlit hope," penned in the late afternoon of life.
But verses, be they ever so bad, are the marks of refinement, and there
was no vulgar streak in the mind of the Judge.  His weakness, and he
possessed more than one, was the doggedness with which he held to a
conviction.  His mind was not at all times clear; a neighbor said that
he often found himself in a cloud of dust that arose from ancient law
books; and it is a fact that an able judge is sometimes a man of strong
prejudices.  At the time of this narration he was still hale, good
humored, a little given to the pedantry of advancing years, devoted to
his family, impressive in manner, with his high forehead and thin gray
hair; firm of step, heavy in the shoulders, not much above medium
height, cleanly shaven, with full lips slightly pouting.  Following his
own idea of comfort, he had planned his house, a large brick building in
Indiana Avenue, at first far out, but now within easy reach of the area
where the city’s pile-driving heart beats with increasing violence.  It
was a happy household.  The son, Howard, was a manly fellow, studious
but wide awake, and upon him the old man rested a precious hope.  The
mother was a blonde, and nature had given her cast to the boy, blue eyes
and yellowish hair; and it was said that if he had a vanity it lay in
his bronze beard, which he kept neatly trimmed—and it had come early,
this mark of the matured man.  His foster brother, George Bodney, was
dark, inclined to restlessness, over-impressionable, nervous.  The old
man had another precious hope—Florence, Bodney’s sister; but of this he
shall tell in his own words.  A stranger might not have seen anything
striking about the girl; but all acquaintances thought her handsome.  At
school she had been called a "character," not that she was original to
the degree of being "queer," but because she acted in a manner
prematurely old, discussing serious questions with her teachers,
debating the problems of life.  Her hobby was honor, a virtue which a
cynic has declared is more often found among boys than among girls.  She
liked to read of martyrs, not that there was heaven in their faith, but
because she thought it glorious to suffer and to die for a principle, no
matter what that principle might happen to be.

There was one other member of the family, William, the Judge’s brother.
He looked like a caricature of the "student," with thinner hair and
thicker lips.  He had not given his energies to any one calling;
shiftless is the word best fitted to set him forth.  He had lived in
different parts of the far West, had been dissatisfied with all places
because a failure in all, and had come to spend the remainder of his
days with his brother in Chicago.  Here, he declared, a man could not
find disappointment, for no man of sense expected anything but
permission to breathe and to keep out of the way.  Friends knew that he
was the Judge’s standing joke, a family laughing stock, a humorous
burden, a necessary idleness.  Of course, it was natural for him to feel
that he owned the place.

Howard and George Bodney were bred to the law, and recently had been
admitted to the bar.  The "starvation period" of the average young
lawyer did not arise out of dull prospect to confront them; they were to
make their way, it was true, but they could study and wait.  Howard was
ambitious, and his mind was grasping.  It was said that he "gulped" a
book.  He did not stop at the stern texts which were to serve as a part
of his necessary equipment, but gave himself excursions among those
graces of half-idle minds which light a torch for souls that may be
greater.  He peeped into the odd corners of thought.  Once he startled
his father by declaring that genius was the unconscious wisdom of
ignorance.

"It is the reflection of hard work," said the old man.  The boy was the
corner-stone of his hope; he wanted to feel that his work was to go on,
generation after generation, a pardonable vanity, but a vanity
nevertheless.  He wanted the boy to be practical, for a speculative
youth is not a good perpetuator of a father’s career.  And on one
occasion the boy was taken gently to task for reading a decadent book.

"I like to brush up against different minds," said he.

"But nothing is gained by brushing against a diseased mind."

"We might learn something from a mad dog."

"But all of value that we may learn from him," said the old man, "is to
keep out of his way.  I must request you not to read such books."

Bodney had not distinguished himself.  He appeared to be restless and
dissatisfied with himself and with his prospects.  He thought that the
law afforded but a slow and tedious way to make money, and deplored the
shortsightedness of his father and his benefactor for not having
invested in the mud-hole.  Nervousness may inspire force of character,
but it more often induces weakness.  In many respects Bodney was weak.
But the Judge, who should have been a shrewd observer of men as well as
of principles, did not see it.  In the "youth of old age," a man who, in
his younger days, may have been keenly of the world, sometimes turns
upon life the goggle eye of optimism.

After his retirement from the bench and the more active affairs of the
law, the Judge fitted up an office at his home, with desks, long table
covered with green baize, books and safe.

One evening Bodney sat alone in the home office, deeply brooding.  The
household was at dinner, and he heard the hearty laughter of the Judge.
He was joking with a guest, a preacher, a good fellow. The young man’s
brow was dark.  Of late he had formed an association with a man named
Goyle, clearly an adventurer, but a man to inflame the fancy of a morbid
nature.  Bodney and Goyle had been much together, at the house and at
the office down town, but no one made any objection. Personal freedom
was a hobby with the Judge.

There were two doors leading into the office, one opening into a hall,
the other into a passageway communicating directly with the street.
Through the door opening into the passage Goyle entered. He carried a
valise in his hand.  Bodney looked up.

"Halloa, Goyle," said he.  "Come in."

[Illustration: "Halloa, Goyle," said he.  "Come in."]

"That’s what I’m doing," Goyle replied, putting down the valise near the
door and advancing toward the desk at which Bodney was seated.

"Sit down," said Bodney.

"That’s what I’m going to do," Goyle replied.

He sat down, and for a time both were silent. "Where’s everybody?" Goyle
asked.

The bass laughter of the Judge and the contralto of a woman’s mirth were
heard.

"At dinner," said Bodney, nodding toward the dining room.

"Don’t you eat?"

"Sometimes," Bodney answered, and then after a short silence he asked:
"Did you get my note?"

"Yes."

"What do you think?"

"I think you’re scared," said Goyle.

Bodney gave him a quick look.  "Who wouldn’t be?"

"I wouldn’t."

"Yes, you would.  It’s this way, and there’s no other way to it: The old
man has missed money from the safe.  He hasn’t said so, but I can tell
by the way he acts."

Goyle smiled.  "Well, but no one but himself knows the combination of
the safe.  He doesn’t know that you found a piece of paper with the
figures on it, does he?"

"Of course not, but it won’t be long before he begins to suspect
someone."

"Which, necessarily, fastens it on you.  Is that it?"

"Doesn’t it look like it?"

"Oh, it might," said Goyle.  "That is, if you let it?"

Bodney looked at him with reproach.  "If I let it. How the deuce can I
help it?  You don’t suppose he’d suspect his son Howard, do you?  No man
could trust a son more than he does."

Goyle shrugged his shoulders.  "Didn’t trust him with the combination of
the safe, did he?"

"No, for it’s his idea of business not to trust anyone absolutely.  He
laughs and jokes all right enough, and says that this is a fine old
world, but he hasn’t quite forgotten that he practiced law among
rascals."

"Yes," said Goyle, leaning back and stretching himself.  "This soft air
makes me lazy.  It’s not natural, you know, to be comfortable in
Chicago. What were we talking about?"

Bodney turned upon him almost fiercely, but the visitor looked at him
with the self-command of impudent laziness.  He was not given to starts.
He was born a rascal, and had cultivated his legacy. Coolness may be a
virtue; it is also the strongest weapon of the scoundrel, and Goyle was
always cool.  He motioned with his hand, bowed, smiled, and Bodney’s
anger was gone.

"Don’t get hot, old man," said he.  "Everything is all right.  If it
isn’t, we’ll make it so.  Oh, yes, we were talking about the old
gentleman’s suspicions.  And we’ve got to take care of them.  If I
understand it, Howard is to marry your sister. You are all of a family.
Your father and the Judge were law partners years ago, and you and your
sister were adopted by—"

Bodney waved his hand impatiently.  "We know all about that.  Yes, and
he has been a father to me and I have been—"

"A villain, necessarily," Goyle broke in.  "Villainy is born in us, and
for a time we may hide out our inheritance, but we can’t get away from
it.  And it’s only the weak that struggle against it.  The lamb is born
with wool and the dog with hair.  No, we can’t get away from it."

"But we needn’t delight in it," said Bodney, with a faint struggle.

"No, and we needn’t lie down on it, either.  But, to business.  The
Judge must know who took the money from the safe."

Bodney started.  "What, do you think I am going to tell him?"

Goyle yawned.  "No, you must show him."

"Show him!"

"Yes.  He must see his son Howard take the money."

Bodney stood up and looked down upon him. "Goyle, are you a fool, or do
you take me for one? Must see Howard take the money!  What do you mean?
Do you think I can bribe Howard to take it?  I don’t understand you."

"Sit down," said Goyle, and Bodney obeyed, looking at him.  Goyle
lighted a cigarette, turned and pointed to the valise.  "The thief is in
that grip, and the Judge must see him take the money from the safe.
Listen to me a minute.  Among my numerous accomplishments I number
several failures—one as an actor.  But we learn more from a failure than
from a success.  All right.  I heard Howard say that tonight he is going
to a reception. In that grip is his semblance—make-up.  At the proper
time, after Howard is gone, you must lead the Judge in here and see me,
as Howard, take money from the safe.  On the mother’s account the old
man can be made to keep quiet—to hold his tongue, and not even say
anything to his son.  He changes his combination, the affair blows
over—and we’ve got the money."

"Monstrous!" exclaimed Bodney, jumping up and glaring at Goyle.

"Do you think so?  Sit down."

Bodney sat down.  "Yes, I do think so," he said.

"What, the crime or the—"

"Both.  And the trick!  Anybody could see through it.  It’s nonsense,
it’s rot."

"Yes?  Now, let me tell you, Brother Bodney, that life itself is but a
trick.  The world worships a trick—art, literature, music—all tricks.
And what sort of art is the most successful?  Bold art.  What sort of
scoundrel is the most admired by the world? The bold scoundrel.  Bold
art, my boy."

"But art has its limits and its rules," Bodney feebly protested.

Goyle dropped the stub of his cigarette upon the floor.  "Yes, rules for
imitators to follow.  Originals break rules.  Rules are made by
weaklings to hamper the success of the strong.  You’ve got to take the
right view of life," he said, slowly lifting his hand and slowly letting
it drop upon his knee. "We are living in the nervous atmosphere of
adventure and bold trickery.  The spirit of this town hates the
stagnant; we wipe our muddy feet on tradition.  To us the pig squeal of
the present is sweeter than the flute of the past.  You and I are
intellectual failures, and why?  The town is against us.  Put an
advertisement in tomorrow morning’s newspaper—’Graduates of Harvard and
Yale wanted, fifteen dollars a week,’ and see how many answers you’ll
get.  A cartload—and from men who were turned out prepared to fight the
battle of life.  Think of it. The man who has had his mind trained to
failure, whose teaching has made him a refined weakling, with a mind
full of quotations and mystic theories—that man has a cause to be
avenged upon life, upon society for misleading him.  Hear them laughing
in there?  You don’t hear me laughing.  I’ve got nothing to laugh about.
You and I know that there isn’t any future beyond this infernal life.
Then, why hesitate to do anything that works toward our advantage here?
I’m talking to your reason now. We have gambled, and we have lost."  He
turned and shook his finger at the valise.  "The thief, I tell you, is
in that grip, and he will get us out.  If it fails, of course, we are
done for, but we are done for if we don’t try.  I know it’s a bold
trick, but that’s in its favor.  It’s too bold to be expected or
understood.  It’s no time to think of gratitude.  We’ve got to act.
Give me the combination."

They got up, and Bodney stood trembling.  He seemed to be struggling to
break loose from something that held him in its grasp.  Goyle gazed into
his eyes.  Bodney put up his hand as if to shield them from a dazzling
light.

"Give me the combination."

Bodney tore loose from the something that seemed to be gripping him, and
started on a run toward the door.  Goyle caught him, put his hand on
him, held him.

"I hear them coming.  Give me that piece of paper."

Bodney gave him a slip of paper.  Goyle took up the valise.  "Come on,"
he said, and Bodney followed him out through the door leading into the
passage.




                             *CHAPTER II.*

                           *THE FAMILY JOKE.*


The Judge, his brother William and the Rev. Mr. Bradley entered the
office.  "Yes, sir," said the Judge, "I’m delighted that you have been
called to Chicago.  We are full of enterprise here, religious as well as
secular.  Sit down.  And we push religious matters, Mr. Bradley.  Here
everything takes up the vigorous character of the town.  You know that
one of our poets has said that when the time comes we’ll make culture
hum."  Bradley sat down, smiling.  "William," said the Judge, still
standing, "can’t you find a chair?"

"Oh, I believe so," William replied, sitting down.  "But why do you make
everybody sit down and then stand up yourself?  Mr. Bradley, my brother
John is a browbeater.  He forgets that he ain’t always on the bench."

The Judge winked at Bradley, and laughed.  He was full of good humor,
sniffing about on the scent of a prank, and when all other resources
failed, he had the reserve fund of his brother, the family joke, the
humorous necessity.

"You remember," said Bradley, "I told you, some time ago, that it was my
ambition to have a charge here."

The Judge, standing in front of him, began to make convincing motions
with his finger, laying down the law, as William termed it.  "It’s the
field, Bradley.  You can raise more money in a church here than—"

"Oh, it is not that, Judge," the preacher broke in. "Chicago presents a
fertile opportunity for doing good, for making men better, life more
worth living, and—"

"Death more certain," William suggested.

"My brother doesn’t like it here," said the Judge.

Bradley turned his mild eyes upon the brother and in the form of a
question, said, "No?"

William cleared his husky throat.  "I have lived further West, where a
fellow may make you get out of a stage-coach at the muzzle of a pistol,
but he won’t sneak up and slip his hand into your pocket."

"My brother took a whirl at the board of trade," said the Judge.  He sat
down, lighted a cigar, and offered one to Bradley.  "Won’t you smoke?"

"Not now," Bradley answered.  "I am trying to break myself."

"Go down to the board of trade," William suggested.  The Judge laughed,
and looked as if he were proud of his family joke.  "Won’t you smoke,
William?"

"No," replied the humorous necessity, "I’ll wait till I go to my room
and then smoke sure enough—a pipe."

"Smoke it here."

"No, I’ll put it off—always enjoy it more then. I recollect the tenth of
June, sixty-three—was it the tenth or the eleventh?  Anyway, a party of
us were going—it was the eleventh.  Yes, the eleventh.  I was only a
young fellow at the time, but I liked a pipe, and on that day—no, it
must have been the tenth.  John, did I say the eleventh?"

"I think you hung a little in favor of the eleventh, William."  He
winked at Bradley.  "And I was sorry to see it, too, for of all the days
in June, the tenth is my favorite."

William looked at him and cleared his throat, but the Judge wore the
mask of seriousness.  The brother proceeded: "Well, I’m reasonably
certain it was the tenth.  Yes.  Well, on the tenth of June,
sixty-three, a party of us were going over to—yes, the tenth—over to—"

"Hold on a moment," said the Judge.  "Are you quite sure it was the
tenth?  We want it settled, don’t we, Bradley?  Of course, you are much
younger than we are, Bradley, but you are old enough to enter into the
importance of this thing. As far as he can, a preacher should be as
exact as a judge."  Bradley nodded, laughing, and the flame of William’s
anger burst forth.’

"Confound it, John, don’t you suppose I know?"

"I hope so, William," said the Judge.

William snorted.  "You don’t do anything of the sort, and you know it."

"Well, if I don’t I know it, of course, but—"

"Oh, you be confound.  You are all the time—"

"Go ahead with your story."

"I’ll do nothing of the sort, sir; I’ll do nothing of the sort.  You are
all the time trying to put it on me, and I’ll do nothing of the sort;
and the first thing you know, I’ll pick up and leave here.  I was simply
going to tell of something that took place on the—Mr. Bradley, did I say
the tenth?"

The preacher had not been able to keep a straight face, but with
reasonable gravity he managed to say that the tenth was the final date
agreed upon.  "By all parties concerned," said the Judge, puffing at his
cigar.  William scratched his head.  "But, after all, it must have been
on the eleventh."

"Knocks out my favorite again," the Judge muttered, but William took no
notice of the interruption. It is the duty of a family joke to be
forbearing.

"Ab Tollivar came to me on that day," William began, "and said that
there was to be—"

"On the tenth—came to you on the tenth?" the Judge broke in.

"I said the eleventh."

"William, I beg your pardon," the Judge replied, "but you said the
tenth, raising my hopes, for you well know my predilection for that day.
In many ways a man may be pardoned for recklessness, but not in the
matter of a date.  The exact time of an occurrence is almost as
important as the occurrence itself.  History would lose much of its
value if the dates—"

"John, when you get into one of your tantrums you are enough to make a
snow man melt himself with an oath.  You’d make a dog swear."

"Not before me when I was on the bench.  But your story.  Ab Tollivar
came to you and—"

"I’ll not tell it."  He got up and glared at the Judge.  "Oughtn’t I to
know what day it was on?"

"Yes, and I believe you do.  Sit down."

"I’ll do nothing of the sort, sir.  I’ll not sit here to be insulted by
you or anybody else."  He moved off toward the door, but before going
out, halted, turned, and said: "Mr. Bradley, I’ll tell you the story
some other time.  But John shall never hear it."  He gave his head a
jerk, intended for a bow of indignation, and strode out.

"He’s the dearest old fellow in the world," said the Judge, "and I
couldn’t get along without him."

"Isn’t he somewhat younger than yourself?"

"Yes, two years.  Come in."

Mrs. Elbridge entered the dingy room, brightening it with her presence.
"Won’t you please come into the drawing room?" she said.  "It is so
dreary in here.  Judge, why do you bring visitors to this room?  After
the Judge retired from the bench, Mr. Bradley, he decided to move the
main branch of his law office out here, and I didn’t think that he would
make it his home, but he has; and, worse than that, he makes it a home
for all his clients.  They can stroll in from the street at any time."

"A sort of old shoe that fits everybody," said the Judge.  "The only way
to live is to be comfortable, and the only place in which to find
comfort is in a room where nothing can be spoiled."

"But won’t you phase come into the drawing room?"

"Yes, my dear, as soon as I am done smoking."

"But you may smoke in there.  Do come, please. The girls want to see Mr.
Bradley.  Won’t you make him come?" she asked, appealing to the
preacher.

"Yes, very shortly," replied Bradley.  "If he doesn’t drop his cigar
pretty soon we’ll have him driven out with Mr. William’s pipe."

"The threat is surely dark enough," she rejoined. "Don’t be long,
Judge," she added, turning to go. "Agnes declares that you shall not
drag Mr. Bradley into your den and keep him shut out from civilized
life."

Agnes was a Miss Temple, a visitor, bright and full of mischief.  And
during all the talk the preacher’s mind had been dwelling upon her, the
mischief in her eyes and the dazzle of her smile.

"Miss Temple is an exceedingly charming woman," he said, when Mrs.
Elbridge had quitted the room.  "She and Miss Bodney were schoolmates, I
believe."

"Yes, and although much separated, have not broken the gauze bonds of
school fellowship."

"Gauze bonds, Judge?"

"The beautiful but flimsy friendship of girlhood."

"Younger than Miss Bodney, I fancy."

"Yes, a year or so.  She lives in Quincy, and is here for a month, but
we shall keep her longer if we can.  She is a source of great
entertainment.  Of course, you have noticed Florence closely—you
couldn’t help it.  She is one of the sweetest creatures that ever lived,
and she has character, too.  I couldn’t think more of her if she were my
daughter—and she is to be my daughter.  She and my son Howard are soon
to be married.  It is the prettiest romance in life or fiction.  They
are near the same age.  They went to school hand in hand—sat beside each
other at table, year after year, and in innocent love kissed each other
good-night.  They don’t know the time when they made their first
vows—upon this life they opened their eyes in love; an infant devotion
reached forth its dimpled hand and drew their hearts together.
Beautiful."

The preacher was thoughtful for a few moments, and then he said: "The
Spirit of God doing the work it loves the best.  And they are soon to be
married.  May I hope to—"

"You shall join them together, Bradley."

"I thank you."

"No, thank the memory of your father.  I knew him well.  He was my
friend at a time when friendship meant something to me."

"And the young woman’s brother, Judge.  I haven’t seen much of him."

"George Bodney?  A manly young fellow, sir, quiet and thoughtful.  He
and Howard are to take up the law when I put it down—indeed, they have
begun already."

"You are a happy man, Judge."

The Judge leaned back in his chair and was thoughtful; his cigar had
gone out, and he held it listlessly.  "Yes, for the others are so
happy."  He dropped the cigar stub upon the ash tray, roused himself,
and said: "Nothing bothers me now.  I am out of the current of life; I
am in a quiet pool, in the shade; and I don’t regret having passed out
of the swift stream where the sun was blazing.  No, I am rarely worried.
Yes, I am annoyed at times, to be perfectly frank, now, for instance,
and by a most peculiar thing.  I—er—a friend of mine told me a story
that bothers me, although it is but a trifle and shouldn’t worry me at
all.  He is a lawyer, situated very much as I am.  He has been missing
money from his safe.  No one but himself knows the combination.  He
couldn’t suspect either of his sons; they didn’t know the
combination—not to be considered at all.  He doesn’t keep large sums on
hand, of course; just enough to accommodate some of his old-fashioned
clients who like to do business in the old-fashioned way.  It bothered
him, for he took it into his head that he himself was getting up at
night and in his sleep taking the money from the safe and hiding it
somewhere.  For years, whenever he has had anything important on hand,
he has been in the habit of waking himself at morning with an alarm
clock.  And I told him to set the clock in the safe and catch himself.
He has done better than that—has fixed a gong so that it will ring
whenever the inner drawer of the safe is pulled open.  Of course, it is
nothing to me, but—ah, come in, Agnes."

"Your wife has sent a bench warrant for you," said the young woman,
entering the room and shaking her finger at the Judge.

"To be served by a charming deputy," said Bradley.

She laughed.  "No wonder preachers catch women," she replied.  "I’m glad
I struck you.  I was afraid I might miss."

The Judge arose and bowed to her.  "We might dodge an arrow but not a
perfume," said he.

"Now, Mr. Judge, when did you come from the South?" she cried.  "But are
you going with me? There are some more people in there; a young fellow
that looks like a scared rabbit.  But he’s got nerve enough to say
cawn’t.  I told him that if he’d come to Quincy we’d make him say
kain’t."

"Well, Bradley," said the Judge, "we are prisoners. Come on."

Bradley halted a moment to speak to Agnes. The Judge turned and asked if
Howard and George Bodney were in the drawing room.  She replied that
Howard had gone or was going to a reception and that Mr. Bodney was
somewhere about the house.  She had seen him passing along the hall with
Mr. Goyle.  Just then, in evening dress, Howard came into the room.  "I
thought I heard Florence in here," said he, looking about.

"Going to leave us?" said the Judge.

"Yes, to bore and be politely bored.  I want Florence to see if I look
all right."

"Oh, I wonder," cried Agnes, "if any man will ever have that much
confidence in me.  There she is now.  Florence, here’s a man that wants
you to put the stamp of approval upon his appearance."

Howard turned to Florence.  "I wanted you to see me," he said.

"I’ve been looking for you," she replied.

Bradley, in an undertone, spoke to the Judge. "I can see the picture you
drew of them."

"No," replied the preacher, with the light of admiration in his honest
eyes.

Agnes spoke to Howard.  "It must have been nearly half an hour since you
and Florence saw each other.  What an age," she added, with the
caricature of a sigh.  "But come on, Judge, you and Mr. Bradley."  She
led the two men away, looking back with another mock sigh at Florence.

"I may not be back till late," said Howard, "and I couldn’t go without
my good-night kiss."

She smiled upon him.  "I knew that you had not forgotten it.  And yet,"
she added, looking at him—"and yet I was anxious."

"Anxious?"

"Yes, but I didn’t know why.  Howard, within the past few days my love
for you has taken so—so trembling a turn.  We have been so happy, and—"

"And what, Florence?"

"Oh, I don’t know, but something makes me afraid now.  You know that
there are times when happiness halts to shudder."

He put his arm about her.  "Yes, we are sometimes afraid that something
may happen because it has not.  But it is only a reproachful fancy.  We
see the sorrow of others and are afraid that we don’t deserve to be
happy.  But I must go," he added, kissing her.

She continued to cling to him.  "Do I look all right?" he asked.

"I don’t know—I can’t see."

"Can’t see?"

"No.  Love, which they say is blind, has blinded me."

He kissed her again.  "But if love blinds, Florence, it would make a bat
of me.  You are serious tonight," he added, looking into her eyes.

"Yes, I am."  The sound of laughter came from the drawing room.  "Yes, I
am, and I must go in there to be pleased.  Howard, do you believe that
anything could separate us?"

"Really, you are beginning to distress me.  I have never known what it
was to live without you, and I couldn’t know it.  But cheer up, won’t
you?  To-morrow we—"

"Yes, I will," she broke in.  "It was only a shadow and it has passed.
But I wonder where such shadows come from.  Why do they come? Who has
the ordering of them?"

As they were walking toward the door opening into the hall, William
entered from the passage, smoking his pipe, his thin hair rumpled as if
he had just emerged from a contest.  Howard and Florence did not see
him, and he called to them.

"I say, there, Howard, I thought you were going out."

The young man halted and looked back with a smile.  "Don’t you see me
going out, Uncle Billy?"

"Now look here, young fellow!" exclaimed the old man in a rage, his hair
seeming to stand up straighter, "I don’t want to be Uncle Billied by
you, and I won’t have it, either.  Your daddy’s got it in for me lately,
and I’ll be hanged if I’m going to put up with it much longer.  And
Florence, you’d better speak to him about it.  I want to give him every
opportunity to mend his ways toward me, and you’d better caution him
before it’s too late.  Do you understand?"

"Yes, Uncle William," she answered.  "And I will speak to him."

"Well, see that you do.  And, mind you, I wasn’t certain whether it was
on the tenth or the eleventh; I was willing to give either the benefit
of the doubt; I—"

"That’s all right, Uncle William," said Howard.

The old man glared at him.  "It’s not all right, sir, and you know it.
But go ahead.  I don’t belong to the plot of this household, anyway.
I’m only a side issue."  Howard and Florence passed out, and he shouted
after them.  "Do you hear me? Only a side issue."

Just then Bodney came in.  "You are a what, Uncle William?" he asked,
looking about.

"I said a side issue."

"What’s that?"

"If you haven’t got sense enough to know, I haven’t the indulgence to
tell you."

"Where did you get that pipe, Uncle William?"

"I got it in the Rocky Mountains," said the old fellow.

"It must have come there about the time the mountains arrived.  Whew!"

"Now, look here, George Bodney, don’t you bring up the tail end of an
entire evening of insult by whewing at my pipe.  I won’t stand it, do
you hear?"

Bodney undoubtedly heard, but he did not reply; he went over to the desk
and began to look about, moving papers, as if searching for something.
"I left my knife here, somewhere," said he.  "Must have a little more
light."  He turned up the gas drop light on the table, went back to the
desk, and, pretending to find his knife, turned down the drop light
lower than it had been before.

"There’s no use to put out the light simply because you’ve found your
knife," said William.  "It may be to your advantage to have it dark, but
I like to see.  I haven’t always lived in this soot and smoke; I have
lived where I could see the sky from one year’s end to another."

"I beg your pardon," said Bodney, "but how long do you expect to stay in
this room?"

"Oh, don’t pay any attention to me.  I don’t belong to the plot."

"What plot?" Bodney exclaimed, with a start.

"Why, the plot of this household—the general plot of the whole thing."

"Oh, yes, I see," said Bodney.

"I’m glad you do.  And, here, just a minute. The Judge and I had a
difference tonight."

"Not a serious one, I hope."

"Devilish serious.  Wait a moment.  I set out by admitting that I was
not exactly certain whether it was on the tenth or the eleventh.  But I
settled it, finally, I think, on the eleventh.  I—"

"Eleventh of what?"

"Of June, sixty-three.  On that day, as I started to tell them—now, I
want to be exact, and I’ll tell you all about it."  The old man sat
down, crossed his legs, took a few puffs at his pipe, preliminaries to a
long recital; but the young fellow, standing near, began to shift about
in impatience.  "I remember exactly what sort of a day it was.  There
had been a threat of rain, but the clouds—"

"Oh, I don’t care anything about it."

"What!"

"I say, I don’t care anything about it."

"The hell you don’t!  Why, you trifling rascal, I raised you; you owe
almost your very existence to me.  And now you tell me that you don’t
care anything about it.  Go on out, then.  You shan’t hear it now, after
your ingratitude."  Bodney strode out, and the old man shouted after
him, "I wouldn’t tell you that story to save your life."  Laughter came
from the drawing room.  William grunted contemptuously.  "There’s John
telling his yarns.  And that preacher—why, if I couldn’t tell a better
story than a preacher—"  He broke off and got up with sudden energy.
"But they’ve got to hear that story.  They can’t get away from it."  And
muttering, he walked out briskly.

Bodney stepped back into the room.  He looked at the light, turned it
lower, sat down and, leaning forward, covered his face with his hands.
But he did not remain long in this position; he got up and went to the
safe, put his hand upon it, snatched it away, put it back and stood
there, gazing at the light.  Then he went to the door and beckoned.
Goyle, disguised as Howard, walked in with insolent coolness.  In
Bodney’s room he had dressed himself, posing before the glass, arranging
his bronze beard, clipping here and there, touching up his features with
paint—and Bodney had stood by, dumb with astonishment.  The dress suit,
everything, was complete, and when he came out he imitated Howard’s
walk.  Bodney could not help admiring the superb control he had of his
nerves; but more than once he felt an impulse to kill him, particularly
when, in response to the beckoning, he stepped into the office.

"If it fails, I shoot you," Bodney whispered.

"Rot.  It can’t fail.  Don’t I look like him?"

"Yes.  You would deceive me—you—"

"Art, bold art," said Goyle.  "A man ought to be willing to die for his
art.  Turn the light a little higher."

"No, it’s high enough."

Goyle walked over leisurely and turned up the light.  "That’s better.
We must give him a chance to see."

"Wait a moment," said Bodney, as Goyle took his position at the safe.
"Wolf, I want to acknowledge myself the blackest scoundrel on the
earth."

"Not necessary.  Taken for granted.  Go ahead."

Bodney turned to go, but hesitated at the hall door and seemed again to
struggle with something that had him in its grasp.  Goyle motioned, and
said, "Go ahead, fool."  Bodney passed into the hall, and Goyle began to
turn the knob of the safe, holding his paper to catch the light.  He
heard the voice of Bodney.  "It won’t take long.  I want you to help
me—"  The door swung.  Goyle pulled open the drawer, and then followed
three sharp strokes of the gong, just as loud laughter burst from the
drawing room.  Goyle jumped back.  The Judge rushed in, with Bodney
clinging to him. Goyle turned as if he had not seen the Judge and rushed
from the room.  Bodney struggled with the Judge, his hand over his
mouth, and forced him down upon a chair.  "Judge, father, not a word—for
his mother’s sake.  You must freeze your heart for her sake."  The old
man dropped with a groan, Bodney bending over him.

[Illustration: Goyle began to turn the knob of the safe.]




                             *CHAPTER III.*

                   *THE NIGHT CAME BACK WITH A RUSH.*


Bodney led the Judge to his room on the second floor, where he left him
almost in a state of collapse. He spoke of calling Mrs. Elbridge, but
the old man shook his head, which Bodney knew he would do, and in a
broken voice said that he wanted to be left alone.  At the time when the
Judge left the drawing room with Bodney, Bradley was bidding the family
good-night, but lingered a moment longer to join the company in a laugh
at William, who, having settled his date to his own satisfaction, had
forgotten the point of the story.

Bodney’s room was on the first floor, off the passage, and, going
thither, he found Goyle sitting on the side of the bed, not as Howard,
but as himself.  The scoundrel declared that it had worked like a charm,
but that the clang of the gong had prevented his getting any money.
That, however, was a minor consideration.  He needed money, it was true;
he had not expected much, but even a little would have helped him
greatly.  A lower order of mind might have brooded over the
disappointment, but his mind was exultant over the success of his art.
He argued that if his impersonation of a son could deceive a father, he
might bring forth a Hamlet to charm an audience.

"How is he?" Goyle asked, as Bodney stepped into the room.

"Don’t talk to me, now," said Bodney, sitting down.  He took up a
newspaper and fanned himself. "For a time I wished that I had killed
you."

"Yes?  And now?"

"I wish that you had killed me.  Tell me, are you a human being?  I
don’t believe you are.  I don’t believe that any human being could have
the influence over me that you have had—that you still have, you
scoundrel.  I wish I could stab you."

"Can’t you?"

"No.  My arm would fall, paralyzed.  I used to scout the idea of a
personal devil, but I believe in one now.  He is sitting on my bed.  He
has compelled me to do something—"

"It worked like a charm, George; and now, old fellow, don’t hold a
grudge against me.  I have taught you more than you ever learned before;
I have shown you that a man can do almost anything—that men are but
children to be deluded by trickery.  There, for instance, is a judge, a
man who was set up to pass upon the actions of men.  What did I do?
Convinced him that his own son is a robber.  Was that right?  Perhaps.
Why should such a man have been a judge?  What wrongs may not his
shortsightedness have caused him to commit?  We can’t tell.  He may have
committed a thousand unconscious crimes.  But an unconscious crime may
be just as bad as a conscious one.  He has been sitting above other men.
Now let him suffer; it is due him.  And his son!  What does he care for
you or me?  He reads, and thinks that he is wise.  He has stuffed
himself with the echo of feeble minds; and now let him wallow in his
wisdom.  Look at me.  Are you sorry for what we have done?  Look at me."

Bodney made an effort to get up, but his strength seemed to fail him,
and he remained as he was, gazing at Goyle.  "George," Goyle continued,
his eyes glittering, "I was the hope of a father, a better man than
Judge Elbridge.  But he was ruined by honest men and died of a broken
heart.  That was all right; it was a part of life’s infamous plan.
Everything is all right—-a part of the plan.  My friends called me a
genius; they believed that I was to astonish the world, and I believed
it.  I bent myself to study, but one day the bubble burst and I felt
then that nothing amounted to anything—that all was a fraud.  The world
is the enemy of every man.  Every man is the natural enemy of every
other man.  Evil has always triumphed and always will.  The churches
meet to reform their creeds.  After a while they must revise out
God—another bubble, constantly bursting.  Then, why should there be a
conscience?  That’s the point I want to make.  Why should you and I
suffer on account of anything we have done?  Everything you see will
soon pass away.  Nothing is the only thing eternal.  Then, let us make
the most of our opportunities for animal enjoyment.  The animal is the
only substance.  Intellectuality is a shadow. Are you sorry for what I
have done?"

He fixed his glittering eyes upon Bodney, and, gazing at him, Bodney
answered: "No, I am not. It was marked out for us, and I don’t suppose
we could help it; but somehow—somehow, I wish that I had killed you."

"What for? to cut off a few days of animalism—to make of me an eternal
nothing?  That wouldn’t have done any good."

"It would have prevented the misery—"

Goyle stopped him with a snap of his fingers. "For how long?  For a
minute.  It will all pass away.  Be cheerful, now.  We haven’t any money
as a reward of our enterprise and art, but we have let the life blood
out of all suspicion attaching to us. Let us go to bed."

"You go to bed.  I will lie on the floor."

"No use to put yourself out, George.  I’ll lie on the floor."

"No," said Bodney, and Goyle let him have his way.  The hours passed,
Bodney lying in a restless stupor, but Goyle slept.  Sunlight poured
into the room and Bodney got up.  He went to the window and stood to
cool his face in the fresh air.  He looked back at the bed.  Goyle was
still sleeping, breathing gently.  The horror of the night came in a
rush.  And there was the cause of it, sleeping in peace.  Bodney
snatched open a drawer and seized a razor.  Goyle turned over, with his
face toward the window.

"Ah, up?  What time is it, George?"

Bodney dropped the razor and sat down.  "It is time to get up," he said.
Goyle got out of bed and began to exercise himself by striking out with
his fists.  He had passed, he said, a night of delicious rest, with not
a dream to disturb him.  He whistled merrily as he dressed himself.
Bodney stood with his elbow resting on the marble top of the "bureau,"
his face yellow and haggard.  Glancing down into the half closed drawer,
he saw the razor and shuddered at the sight of it.  With his left hand
he felt of his right arm, gripping it from shoulder down to wrist as if
in some strange manner it had been deprived of strength.  Goyle moved
toward him and he pushed against the drawer to close it, but the keen
eye of the "artist" fell upon the open razor, and glittered like the eye
of a snake.  But he showed no sign of fear or even of resentment.

"I will stay to breakfast with you," he said, putting his hand on
Bodney’s shoulder.

"I wish you wouldn’t," Bodney feebly replied.

"Oh, no you don’t.  Come, brace up now.  My part of the work is done,
but yours is just beginning.  I have saved you from suspicion, but you
must keep yourself saved.  That’s right, brighten up.  Now you are
beginning to look like yourself. Why, nothing so very bad has been done.
We have enacted a little drama, that’s all.  Such things, or things on a
par with them, are enacted every day.  The newspapers are full of
stranger things. We haven’t hired a ’castle’ and entered upon a career
of wholesale murder; we haven’t cut up a woman and made her into
sausage."

The voice of William was heard in the passage, scolding a housemaid for
disturbing his papers. The old man tapped on the door and Goyle opened
it.

"Ah, you here?" said the old man, stepping into the room.  "You’d better
go in to breakfast.  Well, sir, I never saw anything like it in my life.
I can’t put a thing down and find it where I left it.  George, what’s
the matter with you this morning?"

"Nothing at all, sir.  I had a headache and didn’t sleep very well.
That’s all.  Is the Judge up yet?"

"I believe not.  And when he does get up I want to have a talk with him.
I’ll be hanged if he didn’t get that preacher to laughing at me last
night—laughing at me right here in my own house.  I can stand a good
deal, but when a preacher laughs at me, why things have gone too far."

Goyle smiled upon him.  "But, Mr. Elbridge, a preacher means quite as
little when he laughs as when he talks."

This pleased the old man, and he chuckled, his fat sides shaking.
Bodney smiled, too, and Goyle gave him a look of approval and it
appeared to brighten him.  He dressed himself hastily, turning
occasionally to heed a remark made by Goyle or the old man, and when he
stepped out of the room to go with them to breakfast, his face was not
so yellow, nor his countenance so haggard.




                             *CHAPTER IV.*

                        *STOOD LOOKING AT THEM.*


About two hours later Florence was sitting alone in the drawing room
when Howard entered.  She asked him if he had seen his father that
morning. He sat down on a sofa beside her and said, after a moment’s
reflection:

"Yes, I have seen him?  Why did you ask?"

She seemed worried and did not immediately answer him.  He repeated his
question.  "Because he spoke of you at breakfast," she said.  "He didn’t
appear at all well—sat staring about, and—"

"That explains it," said Howard.

"Explains what?" she asked.

"His treatment of me."

"Treatment of you?  Has anything gone wrong?"

"Yes, in the office, just now.  When I went in he jumped up from his
desk, threw down a hand full of papers, and stared at me—muttered,
seemed to struggle with himself, sat down, and asked me to leave him
alone.  He never acted that way toward me before.  I’m afraid he’s ill.
Why, he’s the most jovial man in the world, and—I’m worried.  I don’t
understand it.  If he’s sick, why didn’t he say so?"

"I don’t know, but don’t let it worry you, dear," she said.

"But it does, Florence, to be turned upon in that way.  What did he say
about me at the table this morning?  He surely wasn’t angry because I
didn’t get up in time for breakfast."

"Surely not.  He didn’t say anything, only asked where you were, and
kept staring at the place where you sit."

"And is that the reason you asked me if I had seen him?"

"Yes, that and the fact that he didn’t appear to be well."

"I don’t understand it.  Why, he has joked with me all my life, sick or
well.  It hurts me."  And, after a slight pause, he added: "I wonder if
he turned on George, too."

"It wouldn’t seem so, for as he was going out of the breakfast room he
put his hand on brother’s shoulder and leaned on him."

Bodney came in at that moment, and, looking about, asked if they had
seen Goyle.  As he was going out, Howard called him.

"Oh, George, just a moment.  Have you noticed anything strange about
father this morning?"

And Bodney was master of himself when he answered: "Nothing much.  Only
he didn’t seem to be as well as usual.  It will pass off.  I wonder
where that fellow is?"  He strode out, and they heard him talking to
Goyle in the hall.

"Put his hand on George’s shoulder and leaned on him," Howard mused,
aloud.  "Then he is not well.  George knows it and doesn’t want to
distress me by telling me.  Did he sit up late?"

"No.  Mr. Bradley had to go early, and just as he was taking his leave
brother stepped in and asked your father to help him with an important
matter—some abstract of title, or something of the sort, and they went
out and he didn’t come back. I don’t want to distress you, but your
mother said that he walked the floor nearly all night."

"Did she?  And George knows more than he is willing to tell.  But why do
they try to shield me? It would be all right to shield mother if
anything were wrong, but if there’s a burden, I ought to help bear it."

She besought him not to be worried, assuring him that nothing had gone
very far wrong and that everything would come right.  The clearness and
the strength of her mind, her individuality, her strength of character,
always had a quick influence upon him, and he threw off the heavier part
of his worry and they talked of other matters, of the reception which he
had attended the night before. He repeated a part of a stupid address
delivered by a prominent man, and they laughed at it, he declaring that
nearly all men, no matter how prominent or bright, were usually dull at
a reception.  And, after a time, she asked: "What sort of a man is Mr.
Goyle?"

"Oh, he’s all right, I suppose; smart, full of odd conceits.  I don’t
know him very well.  He comes into the down-town office quite
frequently, but he rarely has much to say to me.  George seems to be
devoted to him."

Florence shook her head, deploring the intimacy. "I don’t like him," she
said.  "And Agnes says she hates him.  She snaps him up every time he
speaks to her."  She looked at Howard, and saw that his worry was
returning upon him.  She put the hair back from his forehead,
affection’s most instinctive by-play, and said that he must not be
downcast at a mere nothing, a passing whim on the part of his father.
"And it was only a whim," she added.

"But whims make an atmosphere," he replied.

"Not ours, Howard—not yours, not mine.  Love makes our atmosphere."

"Yes," he said, putting his arm about her, "our breath of life.
Florence, last night you were depressed, and now I am heavy."  Their
heads, bent forward, touched each other.  "And your love is dearer to me
now than ever before."  Their faces were turned from the hall door.  The
Judge silently entered, and, seeing them, started toward them, making
motions with his hands as if he would tear them apart.  But Howard,
after a brief pause, spoke again, and the old man halted, gazing at
them. "Florence, you asked me, last night, if anything could separate
us, and now I ask you that same question.  Could anything part us?"

"No," she said, "not man, not woman, nothing but God, and he has bound
us together."

"With silken cords woven in the loom of eternity," he replied; and the
Judge wheeled about, and, with a sob, was gone, unseen.

"What was that?" Florence asked, looking round. "It sounded like a sob."

"We were not listening for sobs and should not have heard them," he
replied.  "It wasn’t anything."

William came in, clearing his throat.  "Don’t let me disturb you," he
said, as they got up.  "I don’t belong to the plot at all."  He began to
look about. "I left my pipe somewhere."

"I don’t think it’s here, Uncle William," said Howard.  "You surely
wouldn’t leave it here; and, besides, I don’t hear it."

There came a sort of explosion, and upon it was borne the words, "What’s
that?  You don’t hear it? You don’t?  Now what have I ever done to you
to deserve such an insult?  Ha!  What have I done?"

"Why, nothing at all, Uncle William."

"Then why do you want to insult me?  Haven’t I been your slave ever
since I came here?  Haven’t I passed sleepless nights devising things
for your good?  You can’t deny it, and yet, at the first opportunity,
you turn upon me with an insult."

"Why, Uncle Billy," said Florence, "he wouldn’t insult you.  He was only
joking."

Howard assured him that he meant no insult, whereupon the old man said:
"All right, but I know a joke as well as anybody.  I have joked with
some of the best of ’em in my time, I’ll tell you that.  But it’s no
joke when you come talking about not hearing a man’s pipe.  It’s a
reflection on his cleanliness—it means that his pipe is stronger than a
gentleman’s pipe ought to be.  But I want to tell you, sir, that it
isn’t.  It’s as sweet as a pie."

Howard said that he knew the import of such an accusation.  "But," he
added, "I was in hopes that it was strong, not to cast any reflection,
you understand, but to show my appreciation of what you have done for
me.  I was going to give you that meerschaum of mine."

The old man’s under jaw dropped.  "Hah?  Well, now, I do believe that it
has got to be just a little nippy; just a little, you understand."

"I wish it were stronger than that, Uncle Billy."

"You do?  Howard, you have always been a good friend to me; our
relations have been most cordial and confidential, and I don’t mind
telling you—to go no further, mind you—that my old pipe is as strong
as—as a red fox.  Yes, sir, it’s a positive fact.  Er—where is your
pipe?"

"In my room.  You may go and get it as soon as you like."

"All right, and I’m a thousand times obliged to you.  Florence, did that
preacher go away so suddenly last night because I settled the fact that
it was on the tenth?"

"Oh, no, he left because he had an engagement."

"Well," drawled the old man, "I don’t know about that.  Why, confound
him, I’ve got a right to settle it as my memory dictates.  Does he think
that I’m going to warp my recollection just for him?"

"What was it all about, Uncle Billy?" Howard asked.

"About a story I was going to tell."

"Did you tell it?"

"Did I tell it!  Well, after a fashion; after they had badgered me.
Then I made a mess of it.  How do you expect me to tell a story
when—look here, ain’t you trying to put it on me?  Hah, ain’t you?"

"I don’t know what you mean, Uncle William."

"Oh, you don’t.  The whole kit of you are devilish dull all at once."

"You surely don’t include me," said Florence.

"No, not you, Florence, but all the men about the house.  Why, I went up
to John, just a while ago, and I’ll be hanged if he didn’t snap at me
like a turtle—told me to get out of his office.  Shall I tell you what
he said?  He said that last night he went to hell and was still there.
There’s something wrong with him, as sure as you live."

Howard turned away and began to walk up and down the room.  "There it is
again," said he.  "I no sooner convince myself that it might have been a
mere whim when something comes up to assure me that it is something
worse.  And the look he gave me, Florence.  It hurts me."  He walked
toward the door.  Florence asked him if he were going to his father.  He
turned and stood for a moment in silence.  "No, I am going down town.  I
don’t feel right.  I am hurt.  But don’t say anything to him, please.  I
am going to wait and see what comes of it.  And please don’t say
anything to mother."  He took his leave, and Florence went to the window
and looked after him as he passed down the street.  She spoke to
William.  "I wonder what the trouble is," she said.

"I don’t know," William replied, ruffling his brow, "but as for that
preacher—the first thing he knows, I won’t let him come here.  John has
insisted on his dropping in at any time, because he used to know his
father, but I’ll attend to that. Why does a great, strong fellow as he
is want to throw away his time?  Why doesn’t he get to work?"  He sat
down and, looking toward the piano, asked Florence to play something.
"I’d like a tune quick and high-stepping," he said.  She told him that
she was in no humor.  "In that event," he insisted, "you might play the
Maiden’s Prayer."

"Not now, Uncle William.  Here’s Agnes. She’ll play for you."

"No, I won’t," said Agnes, coming into the room. Florence expected the
old fellow to snort his displeasure at so flat a refusal, but he did
not.  He bowed to her and said: "Now, that’s the way to talk.  I like to
have a woman come right out and say what she means.  Well," he added,
getting up, "I am not in your plot, anyway, so I’ll bid you good
morning."

As soon as William was gone, Agnes went to the piano, seated herself on
the stool and began to ripple on the keys.  "There are times when we
feel like dabbling in water but don’t want to swim," she said.

"And you are dabbling now," Florence spoke up.

"Only dabbling.  Oh, I forgot; your dressmaker is out there, and I came
in to tell you."

"I’m glad you didn’t forget it entirely.  Oh, and I must tell you
something.  Brother says that Mr. Goyle is smitten with you."

Agnes, still rippling, turned half way round, sniffed and turned back.
"I hate him so hard that it’s almost second cousin to love," she
declared.

"Don’t let it be any closer kin, Agnes.  There is always danger in a
first cousin."

Agnes, still rippling, sniffed contemptuously. "He’s been following me
around all the morning. How I love to hate him."

The voice of Mrs. Elbridge was heard, calling Florence, who answered
that she was coming, but she halted long enough to say to Agnes,
mischievously, that she might learn to love him if she loved to hate
him.  Both love and hate were kindred passions, with but a thin
partition between them.  As she was going out, Agnes shouted after her
that, if she ever loved him she would hate herself, and then, just as
Goyle and Bodney entered the room, she added: "We tar and feather such
fellows in Quincy."

"You do what in Quincy?" Bodney asked.

And Agnes, without looking round, repeated: "Tar and feather such
fellows."

Goyle knew that she meant him, but instead of kindling resentment, her
words aroused in him an additional interest in her.  He looked at her as
in the rhythmic sway of her graceful form, the nodding of her shapely
head, she kept time with a tune, half remembered, half improvised; and,
turning to Bodney, he asked in tones too low for the girl to hear: "Has
she got any money?"

"I think she has."

"Leave me alone with her."

"Do you want to snatch her purse?"

"Do you suppose I want a hair pin, a pearl button, a scrap of verse, and
a three-cornered piece of silk that no man can match?  I mean, has she
got any money in her own name?"

"I haven’t asked her, but I think she has."

"Then leave me alone with her."

Bodney stood looking at him.  There was a continuous fascination in the
fellow’s affrontery.  "All right," he said, but quickly added: "We’ve
got to go down town, you know.  I’ll step into the office and wait till
she gets through with you.  You may hypnotize me, but—"

Goyle cut him off with a gesture.  "Nonsense! When she gets through with
me!  Cool, coming from a man whose honor I have saved at the risk of my
own.  But no cooler than the bullet you threatened me with."

"I wish I had given it to you," said Bodney.

"Do you?  It’s not too late, if you are bent on murder.  But that’s all
right," he broke off, with a wave of the hand.  "Leave me alone with
her."

Bodney went out and Goyle sat down on a sofa, gazed at the girl, cleared
his throat, coughed; but she did not look round.  "What are you playing?
May I ask?"

"You have asked," she replied, without looking round.

"But you haven’t told me."

She left off playing, and slowly turned on the stool to face him.  "A
tune they played in Quincy one night, when they tarred and feathered a
man," she said.  And then, with a smile of sweet innocence, she added:
"You were never in Quincy, were you?"

"Well, I was never tarred and feathered there."

"Possibly an acknowledgment that you were never in the town.  Oh,
somebody told me that you were once connected with opera."

"Then somebody flattered me.  I couldn’t sing in a chorus of scissors
grinders."

"A sort of Chinese opera, I inferred," she said.

"Well, that’s about the only sort I could sing in. Chinese opera, eh?"

"Yes, that’s what I inferred.  It was something about Sing-Sing.  Isn’t
that Chinese?"

"Oh, it sounds like a joke," said he.

"And it wasn’t?" she asked, in surprise.  "Then it was serious opera
instead of comic.  They call serious opera grand, I believe.  And is
that the reason they call larceny grand—because it is serious?"

For a time he sat in a deep study of her.  How different from the
nervous and impressionable weakling who had just left the room; and in
looking at her he felt that his eyes refused to glitter with a
snake-like charm; they were dull and flat, and he drew his hand across
them.  "Do you know that I like you?" he said.

"Then I do not bring up an unpleasant recollection."

"No, a beautiful vision."  And now he had more confidence in his eyes,
for he got up and moved toward her.  She slipped off the stool and stood
looking at him.

"Won’t you play something for me?" he asked.

"I don’t want to play.  I don’t feel like it."

"Let your fingers dream over the keys."

"My hands aren’t asleep."  She moved off from him.

"You aren’t afraid of me, are you?".

She looked him in the eye.  "My grandmother killed a panther," she said.

He drew his hand across his eyes; he recalled what Bodney had said—about
her getting through with him.  In the dictionary of slang there is a
word to fit him: the resources of his "gall" were boundless.  "Why don’t
you like me?" he asked.  "Am I ugly in your sight?  Do I look like a
villain?"

"If you looked more like a villain you’d be less dangerous."

"That’s cruel.  We may not see each other again. Won’t you shake hands
with me?"

"What is the use of shaking hands with a stranger we are never to see
again," she said.

"But if we shake hands," he persisted, "we may not be strangers."

"No?  Then, we’ll not shake."

William strolled through the room, halting just long enough to assure
them that he was not trying to break into the plot.  "He’s a queer
duck," said Goyle.

"I wish there were more of his feather," she replied.  "He can pass
through without stopping."

"And so could I but for you," he rejoined.

She snapped her eyes at him.  "What nerve tonic do you take?"

"Nature’s.  She gives me a tonic whenever I look at you."

She laughed at this, and she said: "I am woman enough to like that sort
of talk, but I don’t like you."

"You like my talk, but don’t like me.  Why this discrepancy?  Why don’t
you like me?"

"Oh, I don’t know.  You give me the creeps."

"You are very frank."

"Oh, the creeps would make anybody frank."

Bodney appeared at the door and cleared his throat to attract attention,
and he was bold enough to ask her if she had got through with him.
"Long ago," she answered.  "And now you may have him."

Goyle bowed to her.  "Mr. Bodney and I may go out of town for a day or
two—or, at least, I may.  Will you permit me to hope to see you upon my
return?"

"Oh, certainly," she said, and he felt that at last he was making some
sort of progress.  "I thank you," he replied.

But there was something more to follow.  "You can hope that you may, and
I will hope that you may not," she said.

Goyle bowed, and looked at her, admiringly. "Miss Needle-tongue," he
said.  "But you catch me."

Bodney told him to come on, but he lingered a moment longer.  "May I
tell you good-bye?" he said, and she replied that she hoped so.  As the
two men were going out the Judge came in.  Goyle glanced at him, but
Bodney averted his eyes.  The old man’s face smote him with reproach.




                              *CHAPTER V.*

                    *SHE SAID THAT SHE WAS STRONG.*


Agnes, accustomed to joke with the Judge, now looked at him in
astonishment; his face was haggard and his eyes appeared hot with
suffering.  But he had not forgotten his dignified courtesy.  He bowed
to her, bade her good morning, as if he had not seen her earlier in the
day, said that he was looking for Florence, and asked if she would
please find her, that he desired to see her—alone.  Agnes went out at
once to find Florence, wondering what could have happened to throw so
serious a cast upon the countenance of the Judge; and, left alone, the
old man walked slowly up and down the room, talking to himself.  "I
don’t know how to tell her, but she must know of it.  It is my duty to
tell her."  He paused, looked toward the door, and continued: "I am
striving to master my heart by smothering it; I must be the master of a
dead heart."  He paused again and resumed his walk.  "Yesterday the
world was a laugh, but today it is a groan.  I wonder if he saw me.  No,
and toward him I must bear the burden of silence.  A mother’s heart
would see the accusation in his face, and I must protect her.  To keep
her shielded is now my only duty in life.  That decadent book!  It was a
seed of degeneracy.  Ah, come in," he said, as Florence appeared at the
door.  Howard had called her eyes the searchlights of sympathy; and she
turned those lights upon the old man’s face as she came into the room,
slowly approaching him.

"Did you send for me—father?"

"Father," he repeated with a catch in his breath that sounded like a
sob.  "My dear, it comes sweet from your lips, but it falls upon me with
reproach."  He stood with bowed head, and Florence put her hand on his
arm.

"What is the matter, father?  Why, you need a doctor.  Let me call—"

"No!" came from him like a cry of pain, as he stepped back from her.
"You must call no one. Wait a moment.  Oh, I’ve got iron in me—but it is
cold, Florence—cold.  Wait a moment.  Wait."

She stood looking at him, wondering, striving to catch some possible
forecast of what might follow, but in his face there was no light save
the dull hue of agony.  Gradually he became calmer, and then he said: "I
am going to tell you something; it is my duty."

"Yes, sir, I am listening."

"But are you strong enough to hear what I have to say?"

"Does it take strength to hear?"

"In your case—yes."

"Then I am strong."  She moved closer and stood resolutely before him,
looking into his eyes.

"Florence, I know your character; I know that your word is too sacred to
break, but this is—is an unparalleled case, and you must be put under
oath."

"Judge, instead of administering an oath, you ought to take medicine.
Why, I never saw you this way before."

She was about to turn away from him, but he took her by the arm.  "Look
at me.  You never saw me this way before.  No.  In all my experience I
have never heard of a man being so situated.  I am a novelty of
distress.  And you must know what my ailment is, but you must take an
oath, a sacred oath, not to speak of it to any human being."

"But if it is so awful, why should I know it?  Tell it to a physician."

"It is my duty to tell it to one human being, and you are the one."

"Then I will take the oath."

"Hold up your right hand."  She obeyed him. "You swear never to repeat
what I tell you."

"Yes, I swear."

"By the memory of your mother?"

"Yes, by the memory of my mother."

"And you hope that the Eternal God may frown upon you if you do not keep
your oath?"

"Judge, this is awful."

"Are you going to back out now?  Are you afraid?"

"I am not afraid.  I hope that the Eternal God may frown upon me if I do
not keep my oath."

He took her hand, the hand held high, and said to her, "You will keep
your oath.  It was disagreeable to take it, but the measure was
necessary.  And now comes the agonizing part of my duty—and I wish I had
died before being compelled to discharge it.  Florence, you know that I
love you."

"Yes, sir, I know it—could never have doubted it.  But why do you speak
of it?  What has it to do with—"

"Wait.  This shall be explained.  You must not marry my son."

She stepped back from him and from her clear eyes, always so
sympathetic, there came a flash of anger.  "You are mad, Judge," she
said.

"I grant it.  He drove me mad—he sent me to hell."

"And you would drag me there."

"I would save you.  It is a duty I owe to the memory of your father and
to my own love for you. Yes, it is my duty."

"And it is my duty," she said, with now the light of sympathy in her
eyes, "to send for a doctor."

"Wait.  You have not heard.  Remember you have sworn."

"Yes, and I will keep my oath.  No, I have not heard.  You have told me
nothing.  You have simply been mad enough to say that we must not
marry."  The sympathy had gone from her eyes. "You must know that Howard
and I have all our lives lived for each other.  I owe you nearly
everything, I would make almost any sacrifice for you, but when you even
intimate—but I will not reproach you," she said, softening again.  "You
have not told me why," she added, looking into his eyes.

"My child, it would break your heart."

She straightened and put her hand upon her bosom.  "I offer my heart.
Break it."

"Florence, my son Howard is a thief."

She snatched her hand from her bosom and raised it as if to strike him,
but one look of agony from his eyes, and her hand fell.  "Judge, how can
you say such a thing?  Something has tripped your mind, but how could it
fall so low?"

"My mind has not been tripped.  It is as firm as a rock.  And you cannot
doubt my word.  Last night I saw him stealing money from the safe, as if
I had not always supplied all his wants, and at an alarm which I had
fixed, little dreaming who the thief might be, he ran away—a thief.  You
cannot doubt my word."

Stern of countenance and with her eyes piercing him, regal as the
barbaric queens we find in ancient fiction, she stood, and the moment of
her silence seemed an age to him.  "I pity your word and I doubt your
eyes."

"You may pretend to, but you cannot in your heart.  You must believe me
when I say that I saw him."

"You saw a vision.  Your eyes have lied to you."

"I saw no vision.  My eyes told a heart-breaking truth.  Florence, would
you marry a thief?"

"Sir, I would marry Howard if I knew that he had stolen a hammer to nail
a god to the cross."

The old man wheeled away from her with a cry. "Oh, crumbled hope—"

Mrs. Elbridge swept into the room, gazing at the Judge.  "Why, what is
the matter?"

The old man gripped himself together.  "Why, I—I have just received a
dispatch, telling me—telling me that my brother Henry is dead.  Don’t
tell William—brother Henry is dead."

Mrs. Elbridge went to him and put her arm about him.  "And you loved him
so," she said.  "Poor, dear man, but we must bow to it, and pray for
consolation.  Don’t—don’t grieve so, dear.  Where is the message?"

The old man looked at Florence.  "It distressed him so that I tore it to
pieces and threw it away," she said.

The Judge gave her a grateful look.  "I thank you," he muttered.




                             *CHAPTER VI.*

                           *THE WEXTON CLUB.*


When Goyle and Bodney left the house they went to a place known as the
Wexton Club.  This institution was not incorporated under the laws of
the state, but its affairs were conducted under a law, the law that
governs the game of poker.  The public dinner pail gaming house, the
pickpocket of the laborer, had been closed; the grave-countenanced faro
dealer and the sad-eyed man who turned the roulette wheel; the
hoarse-voiced "hazard" operator, and the nimble and enterprising thief
of the "stud poker" game, now thrown out of visible employment, stood at
the mouth of the alley waiting for "good times" to return.
"Bucket-shops" broke out in new places, once in a while, and there was
the occasional raid of a poolroom, but it was agreed that public
gambling was a thing of the rough and disgraceful past.  But the poker
clubs!  They were not traps set for the man in overalls.  His pennies
and dimes were not solicited.  Of course, if he saved up capital to the
amount of five dollars, and came with a reasonable appearance of
respectability, he could get into the game, but he was not wanted. The
board of trade men, the race horse man, the merchant, doctor, lawyer,
and particularly the fool with money, furnished the life blood of the
enterprise.  Shrewd gamblers risked their money and pronounced the game
"straight."  And it was "straight."  The "house" could not afford to
permit any "crooked" work.  Its success, the "rake off," depended upon
its own fairness to everyone playing in the game.  But the "sucker" does
not need to be cheated to lose.  His own impulses will sooner or later
rob him of all the money he can borrow, beg or steal.  The man who plays
for recreation wants it, not after a long season of waiting for a good
hand, but at once; and putting in his money he draws to "short" pairs or
to every four straight or four flush.  He may have an encouraging spurt;
he may make a hardened player wince and swear under his breath or even
above it, but in the end, and it comes on apace, he shoves it back,
broke, and the old-timer rakes in the money.  Within recent years
several fine young fellows of good standing and of bright prospects have
looked for diversion in poker and have found state’s prison.  The road
to the penitentiary is paved with four flushes.

At the Wexton, Goyle had introduced Bodney as his friend, Mr. Ramage,
and out of that familiarity which comes of constantly gazing into a
man’s countenance, in the effort to determine what he holds in his hand,
they shortened his name to Ram. The young lawyer had played with
friends, and had won, not because his friends were kind to him, but
because they were as experimental in drawing cards as himself, and
because they were possessed of equally as much curiosity.  The
"gentleman’s game" is a trap door, and it is easy enough to fall from
"Billy" and "George" and "Tom," down into a hell on earth.  This is not
a tirade against gambling, for the horrors of that vice have engaged the
ablest of pens, but to give life in poker clubs as it really exists, the
attractive with the distressful.  Indeed, the distress is not seen in
the club.  The victim gets up with a jocular remark, and silently goes
out, wishing that he were dead, and resolving deep within his
disconsolate heart that he will never enter the place again.  Then his
heart lightens.  He is saved.  He has lost money that he could not
afford to lose, the very bread of his family; but he will do so no more.
He has strength of purpose, an object in life, a position to maintain.
He is now grateful to himself for his own strength of will.  The next
morning he goes dull and heavy to his business. He shudders as he
enumerates the amount of money that he has lost within the past few
weeks; counts it all up, and then, with a sickening pang, recurs a
forgotten sum, borrowed from a friend and not yet returned, though he
had promised to "hand" it back the next day.  The details of his
business are wearisome.  At noon he goes out.  At the "Club" they serve
a meal, better than he can get at a restaurant.  He will go there, but
not to play.  He plays, to get even—will try it once more; and at
evening he sends a message to his wife—"detained on important business."
He has several checks, and one by one they melt away in the pot.  He is
broke.  He wants more chips.  He has money in the bank, he declares; but
the man at the desk is sorry to inform him that it is a rule of the
"house" not to take personal checks.  He is angry, of course. He wants
to know why a check which he offered earlier in the evening was
accepted, and is told that the other check was different, that it was
signed by a name better known than his.  Then he tries to borrow from
the men who have won his money; he knows them well, for he has played
with them day after day.  They have laughed at his jokes, when with the
fool’s luck he has drawn to "short" pairs and won.  They have no money
to lend—would really like to accommodate him, but have obligations to
meet.  And so he goes heavily down the stairs again, with murder in his
heart.  But his heart lightens after a time.  He will never, so help him
God, play again.  But he does.  Ah, it is less bad to be bitten by a mad
dog.

Goyle was but an indifferent player.  He well knew the value of a hand,
but was too impatient to wait.  But no despair fell upon him when he
lost. He did not look forward to a time when circumstances or the force
of his own resolution might set him beyond the temptations of the game,
but to the time when luck might give him enough money to put him in the
game.  Bodney, however, was bound soul and body.  He could hardly think
of anything else.  Dozing to sleep he saw aces and kings; asleep, he
drew to flushes and straights.  In his sleep he might win, but only in
his sleep.  His soul seemed to have been created for this one debasing
passion.  It was his first, for though impressionable, no enthusiasm had
ever mastered him, and love had never set his heart aflame.  But now he
was an embodiment of raging poker, not for gain, but for the thrill, the
drunkenness of playing. His bank account, never large, was gone.  For
himself and for Goyle he had taken small sums of money from the Judge’s
safe, and had lived in the terror of being confronted with the theft.
And he actually believed that had the old man accused him or even
strongly suspected him he would have killed himself.  Suspicion was now
averted, but at the cost of what infamy!  He could face Howard; he could
endure with a show of self-control the agonized countenance of the old
man; but remorse gnawed him like a rat.  It was not to be supposed that
Florence would be enlightened as to the coolness which, of necessity,
must fall between Howard and the Judge, but it could not be otherwise
than a grief to her.  He could look forward and see the wonder in her
eyes, and then the sorrow that must come to her.  It is one of the
misfortunes of a weak man to have a strong conscience, a conscience with
not enough of forecast to prevent a crime, but one which agonizes when a
crime has been committed.  His only solace was to play. Then his mind
was chained to the game, the dealing of the cards, the scanning of his
hand, to the thrill of winning, the dull oppression of losing. Upon
entering the club he had been surprised to see so many old and venerable
looking men sitting about the tables.  One had been a prominent lawyer;
another, a doctor, had turned from a fine practice to waste his
substance and the remainder of his days.  There was good humor, an
occasional story of brightness and color, but upon the whole the place
was sad, everyone seeming to recognize that he was a hopeless slave.
The scholar turned poker-player, thinks and talks poker.  He forgets his
grammar, and puts everything in the present tense. "How did you come out
last night?" someone asks, and he answers, "I lose."  Many of those men
would not have gone to a "regular" gaming house; they would not have
played faro or roulette, but the blight of poker fell upon them, to
weaken them morally, to make them liars.  Sometimes an old fellow,
getting up broke, would turn moralist.  One said to Bodney: "The chips
you see on the table don’t belong to anyone.  You may go so far as to
cash them and put the money into your pocket, but it isn’t yours.  You
may spend it, but you will borrow or steal to make it good to the game."
Among those daily associates engaged in the enterprise of "wolfing" one
another there was a fine shade of courtesy.  No one can be politer or
more genial than a winner, and a loser is expected to shove over the pot
which he has just lost, in case the winner cannot reach it.  In return
for this the loser is permitted to swear at his victor, but etiquette
demands that it shall be done in a mumble, as if he were talking to
himself.  The winner can stand a great deal of abuse.  In the game there
were usually two or more players put in by the "house," cool fellows,
educated to know the value of a hand or the advantage of a position.
They were the "regulars," the others the militia.  The dash and the fire
of the militiaman sometimes overrode the regular, but there was no
question as to the ultimate result. The regular knew when to put down a
bad hand; he could be "bluffed" by the militiaman.  But he could afford
to wait; he was paid to sit there; it was his business.  Bodney,
however, could not wait. With him, impulsive hope was leaping from deal
to deal, from card to card, from spot to spot.

When Goyle and Bodney arrived the members of this family of
interchangeable robbery were ranged at a long table in the dining room,
eating in hurried silence or talking about the game. Occasionally
someone would venture an opinion of a race horse or a prize fighter, but
for the most part the meal was solemn and dull.  Laughter was not
unknown, but it was short, like a bark.  This does not mean that there
was a want of fellowship in the club, but eating was looked upon as a
necessary interruption.

"You are just in time," said the proprietor of the house, not a bad
fellow, a business man, accommodating as far as he could be, yielding
sometimes to the almost tearful importunity of a fool to the extent of
lending him money never to be returned. "Sit down.  Fine weather we’re
having."

"A champagne day," said Goyle, sitting down and spreading a napkin
across his knees.  "How’s the game going?"

"Oh, fairly well.  We’ve got a good run of customers.  They know that
they are perfectly safe here."

"What’s become of that fellow they called Shad?" asked a man at the end
of the table.

"Oh, that fellow from Kansas City?  He’s gone. I didn’t want him.  I
think he’d snatch a card."

Bodney was silent.  He could hear the rat gnawing at his conscience, and
he yearned for the moral oblivion of the game.  Leaving Goyle at the
table, he arose, and walked up and down, then went into the room where
the game was forming.  He had but fifteen dollars, but with this amount
he felt that he could win.  He bought ten dollars worth of chips, musing
upon the fact that he had a reserve fund of five dollars.  The game was
all jackpots, twenty-five cent ante, and three dollar limit, except when
the pot was doubled, and then the limit was five dollars. While a man at
his side was shuffling a deck of new cards, Bodney began to meditate
upon the policy which he intended to pursue.  He would not draw to a
flush or straight except when there were several "stayers," for then the
percentage would warrant the risk.  He would not draw to a pair below
kings, nor open on jacks next to the dealer.  If the pot were opened and
came around to him, even without a raise, he would not stay on a pair of
queens. If he opened on one pair and was raised, he would lie down.  He
would not stand a raise under kings up.  Goyle came in, bought twenty
dollars worth of chips, and took a seat on the opposite side of the
table; and the game proceeded, with seven players. Bodney opened on a
pair of kings.  All passed around to Goyle.  He looked at his hand a
moment, and said: "Only one in?  Well, I’ve got to stay. Give me that
one," he said to the dealer, meaning that he wanted one card.  "Got two
little pairs here, and I won’t raise you unless I help."  Bodney drew
three cards and did not help his kings.  He bet a white chip.  "Now I’ll
go down and look," said Goyle.  "Bet you three dollars," he added.
Bodney was smoking.  He puffed at his cigar.  "I don’t know about that,"
he said.  "What do you want to raise me for?"

"Got to play my hand, haven’t I?" Goyle replied.

Bodney put his cigar on the table and thought. "Well, you’ve got ’em or
you haven’t.  I’ll call you."  He threw in three blue chips, and Goyle
spread a flush.  "Thought you said you had two little pairs," said
Bodney, as Goyle raked in the pot.

"I hadn’t looked at my hand very close."

"You knew what you had all the time.  Stayed on a four flush with only
one man in.  Of course you can always make it against me."

The deal went round and round, and occasionally Bodney won a pot, once a
large one, and now as he stacked up his chips he felt at peace with the
world. He laughed and joked with a man whom he had never met before; he
did not see how he could lose. He threw off the rigor of his resolution,
and drew to a pair of sixes, caught the third, raised the opener three
dollars, and won the pot against aces up. Then his senses floated in a
limpid pool of delight. Goyle opened a pot.  Bodney raised him, having
kings up.  "I’ve got to stay," said Goyle.  "Give me one card."  Bodney
drew one and made a king full. His heart leaped with joy.  "What do you
do?" he asked.

"Bet three dollars," said Goyle, putting in the chips, and Bodney was
almost smothered in exultation.

"I raise you three."

"Raise you three," said Goyle.

"Are you as strong as that?" Bodney remarked, striving to hide the
delight that was shooting through him.  "Well, I’ll have to raise you
three."

Goyle began to study.  "Well, if you can beat a jack full, take the
money."  He put in his three dollars.  "King full," said Bodney, and
Goyle threw down his cards with an oath.  "Of course you couldn’t make
that against anybody but me.  It’s what a man gets for not playing his
hand before the draw.  I ought to have raised you back.  Had three jacks
all the time.  But I didn’t want to beat you."

"Looked like it when you made that flush."

"That’s ancient history."

Bodney did not reply.  He was behind a bulwark of chips, and his heart
beat high.  He began to tell a story.  The winners were interested; the
losers did not hear it.  In the midst of the story, just below the
climax, he had a hand beaten for six dollars, and the story, thus
broken, fell into silence.

"What was that story you were going to tell?"

"It didn’t amount to anything," said Bodney, but not long afterward he
won a ten dollar pot, found the fragments of the story, lying at the
bottom of silence, and gave them voice.  The winners laughed; the losers
did not hear it.

A minute legitimately employed may seem an hour; an hour at a poker
table may be but a minute.

Someone asked the time.  Bodney looked at his watch, and said that it
was five o’clock.  He was nearly seventy dollars ahead, with the reserve
fund still in his pocket, and was resolved to quit very soon.  Just then
Goyle emerged from a contest, broke.  "Let me take ten," said he.
Bodney hesitated a moment.  "Say, I’ve got to pay for—"

"Oh, I’ll give it to you tomorrow.  Let me take ten."

He passed over the chips, but with a feeling of depression.  "I may be
broke pretty soon," said he. "And I can’t let you have any more."

"Broke pretty soon!  Why, you’re even on your whole life.  You got all
my money."

"I haven’t won as much from you as you have from me."

"That’s all right.  My day may come."

Bodney was determined to play no longer than dinner time.  Then he would
cash in.  Goyle’s stack grew to the amount of thirty dollars.  Bodney
was glad to see it grow; ten dollars of it belonged to him.  He did not
care for ten dollars; he had loaned Goyle ten times ten, and did not
expect to recover the sum, but chips were different, and especially now
that they fed his passion and dulled his conscience.  Goyle got up.
"Let me have that ten till tomorrow," said he, and Bodney did not say
anything, but his spirits felt a sudden weight.  He was pleased,
however, when Goyle went out, for there were to be no more raids upon
his stack.  Dinner was announced.  He motioned to an attendant upon the
game, and his chips were taken over to the desk.

"Going to quit us?" a man asked.

"Yes.  This is the first time I’ve won," he added, by way of apology.

"Have dinner before you go," said the proprietor, coming forward.

"I don’t know that I’ve got the time."

"Just as well.  You’ve got to eat anyway."

He went out to dinner, and was permitted to be vivacious.  An old
fellow, sitting on his right, remarked: "I’m glad to see you win."
Others said that they were glad to see him win.  It was surely a very
genial company.




                             *CHAPTER VII.*

                          *WENT OUT TO "DIG."*


After dinner, when the game was reorganized, Bodney looked on for a few
moments, still alive to the keen pleasure of winning; and just as he was
about to go out, a thought struck him.  What was the use of quitting now
that he had luck?  He had waited for it a long time, and now that it had
arrived he was going to throw it away.  He might just as well win a
hundred and seventy as seventy.  He could at least try ten dollars, and
quit if he found that fortune was against him.  There was one vacant
seat and he took it.  Ten dollars and not a cent more.  That would leave
sixty to the good, enough to play on for a long time.  So he bought ten
dollars worth of chips and was again forgetful of the Judge, of Howard,
of Florence, of the world. After a few hands he picked up a straight,
seven high.  He raised the opener, who promptly raised him in return,
giving him the other barrel, as the saying went.  Bodney raised again.
He was to get action on all the money in front of him.  The dealer said
"cards," and the opener, tapping the table with his cards, replied,
"Help him."

"Don’t you want any?" Bodney eagerly asked.

"Didn’t hear me call for any, did you?"

"Well, I don’t want any either," said Bodney, in faltering tones.  A
seven high straight looked weak against a pat hand.

"Turn ’em over, boys," said the man in the look-out chair.

Bodney tremulously spread his hand.  "Only seven high."

"Just top you.  Mine’s eight high.  You had me scared, and if you’d have
more money and bet me after the draw I don’t think I call."

That might have been true, but it offered no consolation to Bodney.
"Just my luck," he said.

"When a man gets them sort of hands beaten he’s got to lose his money,"
said the "look-out."  "There’s nothing to it."  A man standing near was
waiting for Bodney’s seat.  He shoved back and was about to get up,
pursuant upon the resolution which he had formed when, it occurred to
him, as it always does, that with ten more he could win back the ten
just lost.  It was simply an accident that the fellow held over him.  He
would try ten more.  His luck was gone, but he expected every moment to
see it return.  He opened a pot on aces and tens. A fool stayed on
deuces, caught his third, and slaughtered him.  He bought ten more.  His
spirits were heavy and he sighed distressfully.  It was not the loss of
the money; it was the harassing sense of being beaten.  He opened
another pot on queens up.  One of the regulars raised him.  He began to
reason.  "He would raise it on two pairs smaller than queens up.  I saw
him raise just now on sevens up.  I’ll stand it."  He put in his money
and drew one card.  The regular drew one.  The prospect was not bright,
still it was not so bad.  He did not help.  He bet a white chip; the
regular raised him three dollars and he called.  Then the regular had
recourse to a joke, new to Bodney, but old to the game.  "I have the
waiter’s delight," said he.

"The what?"

"The waiter’s delight," and he spread a tray full.

At ten o’clock, Bodney’s capital, including the reserve fund, amounted
to twenty dollars.  "You beat me every time," he said, to an offensive
fellow who sat opposite.  It was the stranger with whom he had laughed
early in the game.

"That’s what I’m here for."

"That’s all right.  I’ll get you yet."

He won several pots, and then opened a double pot for five dollars.  He
had a king high flush, and he intended the heavy opening to operate as a
reverse bluff, to argue a small hand.  The offensive fellow stayed and
drew one card.  He made a small full and Bodney felt his heart stop
beating.  At eleven o’clock he had simply the five dollar reserve fund.
And he saw it melt away—saw his last chip go in.  He drew, having a show
for the pot, and made jacks up.  The opener had queens up.  Heavy of
heart, Bodney went down the stairs.  He cursed himself for playing after
dinner.  "If I only had ten dollars I might win it all back," he mused.
"They can’t possibly beat me all the time.  I played as good cards as
anybody.  I wonder where I can get ten dollars.  Everybody that knows me
has gone home by now.  Let me see.  I know a fellow over at that drug
store.  But I’ve forgotten his name.  Wonder if he’d let me have ten.
I’ll try him."  He went into the drug store, saw the man standing behind
the counter, walked up, reached over and shook hands with him.

"How’s everything?" Bodney asked.

[Illustration: "How’s everything?" Bodney asked.]

"Oh, pretty fair.  How is it with you?"

"All right.  Say, old man, a college chum of mine, devilish good fellow,
came in just now on a train and happened to catch me at the office—"

"Yes?" said the druggist, looking at him.

"Yes, and the fact is, he got here broke and has called on me to help
him out.  He’s a devilish good fellow, and I don’t exactly know what to
do.  Every one I know has gone home, and—could you let me have ten till
tomorrow?  You can count on it then."

"Oh, I guess so, but I’m rather short."

"I’ll give it to you tomorrow without fail."

He went out with a ten dollar note crumpled in his hand.  A man may fail
to get rent money, clothes money, bread money; he may meet with
obstacles that he cannot overcome; his self-respect withholds him from
asking favors of certain men. But the fool in hot quest of poker money
knows no self-respect, recognizes no embarrassments that might stand in
modesty’s way.  Bodney bounded up the stairs, afraid that the game might
have broken up.  Panting and tremulous, he pressed the electric button.
A negro porter pulled aside a blue curtain, peeped through the glass and
opened the door.  The game had not broken up.  Every seat was taken, the
regulars, with chips stacked high before them, the "suckers" squirming
with "short money."  How dull and spiritless everything had looked when
Bodney went out, and now how bright it all was, the carpet, the window
curtains, the pictures on the walls.  The room was large, affording
ample space for a meditative walk up and down, and as he was too nervous
to sit still, he walked.

"Think there’ll be a seat pretty soon?" he asked of the man at the desk.

"Very soon, I think.  Sit down and make yourself comfortable.  Have a
cigar."  He lighted the cigar and resumed his walk.  Passing the table
he saw a man in the death throes of a "show-down."  Some one had opened
a pot and he had been compelled to stay.  Bodney eagerly watched the
draw.  The opener drew one card.  The "show-down" man had to draw four,
presumably to an ace.  This was encouraging to Bodney.  He was the next
in line; he would get the seat.  He leaned forward to catch the result.
The opener had tens up.  The four-card draw yielded a better crop, aces
up, and with a sense of disappointment and injury Bodney resumed his
walk.  But pretty soon a man cashed in, and the young lawyer bought five
dollars worth of chips, and took his seat.  He won the first pot, the
second and the third, but without stayers.  Surely his luck had
returned.  Again he felt a current of pleasure flowing through his mind.
He laughed at a stale joke.  It had never sounded so well before.  A
man, the offensive fellow, now quite a gentleman, began to tell a story,
and Bodney encouraged him with a smile.  "I knew a man once, a preacher,
by the way," said he, "who got into the habit of playing faro; I guess
he must have played before he began to preach, and found that he
couldn’t quit.  Some fellow that was kin to him croaked, and left him a
lot of money.  Then he knew he wouldn’t play any more.  Well, one day he
went by the bank where he had his money, and pretty soon he says to
himself: ’Believe I’ll draw out just a small sum and try my luck once
more—just once.’  Well, he kept drawing on that money till it is all
gone.  Nothing to it, you know.  Then one night he gets down on his
knees and prays.  ’Lord,’ says he, ’if I ever play again I hope you’ll
make me lose.’"

"Did he play again?" Bodney asked.

"Yes; he keep right on."

"And did he lose?"

"No.  He coppers his bets."

Bodney was immensely tickled at the idea of the fellow "coppering" his
bets to offset the influence of the Deity, and he laughed uproariously,
but just then he lost a pot, and his mirth fell dead.  And after this
every time he opened a pot someone would raise him.  After a while he
dragged out his last five dollars and invested in chips.  Then he sank
into the condition known as "sifting," anteing and never getting a pair.
Behind him stood a man waiting for his seat.  He saw his last chip melt
away and he got up, so heavy that he could hardly stand.  The fellow who
had told the story, and to whom Bodney had paid the tribute of most
generous laughter, dealt the cards and skipped Bodney without even
looking at him.  But Bodney looked at him, and how offensive he was.
"I’d like to cut his infamous throat," he mused.  Down the stairs again
he went, heavier and more desperate than before.  It was now past
midnight.  "Now what?" he said, halting on a corner and wiping his hot
face. "I don’t know what to do, but I almost know I could win out if I
had ten more.  But I don’t know where to get it.  There’s no use to look
for Goyle. I wonder if that fellow at the drug store would let me have
another ten.  I’ll go and see."  He crossed over, went into the drug
store, and asked the squirter of soda water if his friend was there.
No, he had gone home.  "Is there anything I can do for you?"

"Well, I don’t know.  By the way, you’ve seen me in here a number of
times, haven’t you?"

"Oh, yes.  And I used to see you over at the other place."

"Yes, I remember, now.  And your name is—"

"Watkins."

"Yes, that’s a fact.  I remember you now.  How are you getting along,
Watkins?"

"All right."

"Yes, sir, I used to know you," said Bodney. "And I guess you are about
the best in your line."

The man smiled.  "Well, that’s what they say."

"Yes, I’ve heard a good many people say it. Well, you understand your
business.  Say, can you do me a favor?  I need ten dollars till tomorrow
morning, and if you’ll let me have it, I’ll—"

The man shut him off with the shake of the head. "I haven’t got ten
cents," he said.

Bodney stepped out.  "Come in again," the fellow called after him.  He
did not reply, except in a mumble, to hurl imprecations back over his
shoulder at the soda-water man.  "He’s a liar, and I’ll bet he’s a
thief.  Now what?" he added, halting on the corner.  He looked up and
down the street, and scanned the faces of the passers-by, hoping to
recognize an acquaintance.  Presently a man rushed up and with a
"helloa, old fellow," grasped him by the hand.  Bodney gripped him; he
did not recall his name, but he held him close.  "I haven’t seen you for
some time," said Bodney.

"No, not since we were out on Lake Geneva, fishing for cisco."

"That’s a fact.  Say, everybody has closed up, and I need ten dollars
till tomorrow morning.  Can you—"

"I was just going to ask you for five," said the cisco fisherman.  "I
went over here at three sixty-one, and got into a little game of poker
and got busted.  Ever over there?  Now, there’s a good game, only two
dollars limit, but it’s liberal.  There ain’t a tight wad in the house.
Come up some time."

Bodney got on a car to go home.  He had just five cents.  The talking of
two women and the frolicking of a party of young fellows annoyed him.
And then arose before him the sorrowful face of his sister.  The rat had
come back with his teeth sharpened, and he felt his heart bleeding.  He
fancied that he could hear the dripping of the blood. Then came upon him
the resolve never to play another game of poker.  It was a sure road to
ruin, to despair.  He would confess to Howard and the Judge.  The car
stopped and Bradley, the preacher, got on, sitting down opposite Bodney,
who, upon recognizing him, arose and warmly shook his hand.  "I am
delighted to see you, Mr. Bradley. You are out thus late for the good of
humanity, I suppose, or rather I know."

"I can only hope so," replied the preacher.

"Some sort of meeting of preachers for the advancement of morals, Mr.
Bradley?"

"No, a dinner."

"Well, a good dinner contributes to good morals."

"If not over-indulged in."

"Yes, if there is a virtuous lack of wine, such as must have been the
case tonight."  He continued to stand, holding a strap, and meditating
upon future procedure, for there was a purpose in the cordiality with
which he had greeted the minister, a purpose now fully developed.  "By
the way, I must come down again tonight—am going home to get some money.
Late this evening I received a note, telling me that a friend of mine, a
divinity student, was exceedingly ill.  I hastened to the number given
and found him in a poverty-stricken room, lying upon a wretched bed,
without a nurse, almost delirious with suffering.  I knew that he was
poor, that he had bent his energies to study to the neglect of material
things, but I had not expected to find him in so deplorable a condition.
So I am now on my way home to get ten dollars.  I went to several
places, hoping that I could borrow, but failed to find any one whom I
knew well enough to ask for a loan, even for so short a time as
tomorrow.  But perhaps you could let me have it."

"Why, I’ll go with you—at once.  What is the young man’s name?"

"Patterson.  But he’s so peculiar that he might not like to see a
stranger.  He begged me not to say anything about his condition."

Bradley gave him ten dollars, and he did not wait to reach the next
street crossing, but jumped off the car, sprang upon a cable train going
north, and was soon climbing the stairs leading to the Wexton Club.  The
same negro admitted him, and again he was afraid that the game might
have dissolved, merely to cheat him of victorious reprisal, but it was
still in progress, with one vacant seat.  This time he invested his
entire amount.  The feeling of security, inspired by a reserve fund,
favored an over-confidence, he fancied; it was better to know that there
was nothing in reserve; it enforced caution. He played with varying luck
till about twelve o’clock, till a regular smote him, hip and thigh; and
then, like the captain, in the version of the poem, not recited to
ladies, he staggered down the stairs.




                            *CHAPTER VIII.*

              *SAW THE BLACK FACE, GRIM, WITHOUT A SMILE.*


It was nearly daylight when Bodney reached home.  As he stood on the
steps, after unlocking the door, he looked toward the east and said
aloud: "The sun will soon draw to his flush.  But he always makes it.
God, what a night I’ve had.  It is the last one, for here at the
threshold of a new day I swear that I will never touch another card.
And Goyle—I’ll have nothing more to do with him."  He went in, still
repeating his vow, and as he passed the door of the office, was
surprised to see a light within; and halting, he heard footsteps slowly
pacing up and down.  He stepped in and stood face to face with the
Judge.

"Why, Judge, are you up so soon, or haven’t you gone to bed?"

"I haven’t been to bed.  And you?"

"I have been sitting up with a sick friend.  Don’t you think you’d
better lie down now?"

"No, I think nothing of the sort.  It is better to stand in hell, sir,
than to wallow in it."  Bodney sat down and the old man stood facing
him.  "But I can hardly realize that it was not a nightmare, George.  Go
over it with me; tell me about it.  How did it happen?"

"Why, we simply came in here together and found—him.  That’s all."

"Yes, that’s all, but it is enough."

"Was there very much money involved?" Bodney asked, not knowing what
else to say.

"Money!  I haven’t once thought of the amount. It is the fact that I
have been shot with an arrow taken from my own quiver, and poisoned.
And yet, when I look at him, as I did today at dinner, I can hardly
bring myself to believe my own eyes."

"You haven’t—haven’t said anything to him, have you?"

"In the way of accusation?  No.  It would leap from him to his mother.
And I charge you to breathe it to no one."

"Not even my sister, who is to be his wife?"

"No.  I will take her case in hand."

"But will you permit them to marry?"

"Not in a house of God; not in the presence of a guest.  If she is
determined to marry him against my protest, it must be in secret, as his
deed was."

"I hope, sir, that everything may—may come out right."

"What do you mean by that?"

"Why, I hope that you may forgive him.  I don’t think that he’s
dishonest at heart."

"Then you are a fool."

"I admit that, Judge.  I am a fool, an infamous fool."

"But you are not a scoundrel, not a thief."

"I might be worse."

"Enough of that.  You are trying to debase yourself to raise him.  Don’t
do it.  You can’t afford it.  You have an honest living to make, and
through you I must now look to the future."  He turned away, and for a
time walked up and down in silence; then, coming back, resumed his place
in front of Bodney.  "It all comes from my over-confidence in modern
civilization.  I did not presume to instruct or even advise him as to a
course of reading, permitting him to exercise his own fancy; and it led
him to that running sore on the face of the earth—Paris.  He read French
books, the germs thrown off by diseased minds.  He lived in a literary
pest house, and how could he come out clean?  He was prepared for any
enormity against nature, and why then should he have drawn the line
between me and any of his desires?"  He turned away, walking up and
down, sometimes rubbing his hands together, as if washing them, then
putting them behind him; halting at the desk to gaze down at something;
going once to the safe and putting his hand upon it, but snatching it
away as if the iron were hot.  Bodney followed him about with his eyes,
seeing him through cards, hearts and spades.  His mind flew back to the
game, and he could see the players sitting just as he had left them, the
offensive fellow and the regular, behind a redoubt of chips. Only ten
dollars more would have saved him; he had fancied so before, but now it
was not fancy but almost a perfect knowledge.  Why had he not asked the
preacher for twenty instead of ten?

"’But it is so strange," said the old man, sitting down with one arm
straight out upon the green baize table; and the wretch with his mind on
the game thought that it would be but an ungainly position for a player
to take; he ought to sit facing the table with his hands in front of
him.  "Stranger than truth," said the Judge, and Bodney looked at him
with a start.  For a moment the game vanished and darkness fell upon the
players, but soon a blue curtain was pulled aside, a black face, grim,
without a smile, showed glistering behind the glass, the door was
opened, and there again were the players in the light, the offensive
fellow drawing one card, the regular solemn and confident with a hand
that was pat.  "Stranger than the strangest truth that I have ever
encountered," the Judge went on, turning his back to the table and
looking over Bodney’s head at something on the wall.  "But I brood too
much."

"One card," said Bodney, in a thick muse.

"What’s that?"

The young man started.  "Nothing."

"You said something about a card."

"Yes, sir; it was sent in to me tonight while I was with my sick
friend—man wanted to see him on business and insisted upon coming in,
and it was all I could do to put him off."

"Brood too much," the Judge repeated, after a brief interval of silence.
"The mind mildews under any one thing that lies upon it long.  A
continuous joy might be as poisonous as a grief."  He leaned forward
with his head in his hands, and talked in a smothered voice.

"The sun is coming up," said Bodney.  "Don’t you think you’d better lie
down?"

"You go to bed.  Don’t mind me."

"Believe I will.  I am worn out, and I don’t see how you can stand it as
well as you do."

"In worry there is a certain sort of strength.  Go to bed."

Bodney got up and went to the door, but turned and looked at the old
man, bowed over with his fingers pressed to his eyes.  The coming of the
sun had driven the game further off into the night, and now the wretch’s
heart smote him hard.  He could lift that gray head; into those dull
eyes he could throw the light of astonishment, but they would shoot
anger at him and drive him out of the house. If he could only win enough
to replace the money taken from the safe, to give himself the standing
of true repentance, he would confess his crime.  Win enough!  He could
not conceive of getting it in any other way; all idea of business had
been driven from his mind.  He had no mind, no reason; what had been his
mind was now a disease on fire, half in smoke and half in flame, but he
felt that if he could get even, the fire would go out and the smoke
clear away.  The old fellow who turned moralist could have told him that
he had for more than half a life-time struggled to get even, that the
poker fool is never even but twice, once before he plays and once after
he is dead.  And the scholar who had forgotten his grammar in the
constant strain of the present tense would have assured him that the
hope to get even was a trap set by the devil to catch the imaginative
mind.

The Judge groaned, and Bodney took a step toward him, with his hands
stretched forth as if he would grasp him and shake him into a
consciousness of the truth, but the old man looked up and the young man
faltered.  "I thought you were going to bed, George."

"I am, sir."

"Then, why do you stand there looking at me?"

"I—I don’t know," he stammered, in his embarrassment.

"Yes, you do know," said the Judge, giving him a straight and steady
look.  "You know that you are hanging about to plead the cause of
your—your friend; but it is of no use.  Friend!  I would to God he had
been my friend.  Confess, now; isn’t that the reason you are standing
there?"

"You read my mind, Judge," said the wretch.

"Do I?  Then read mine and go to bed."

As Bodney turned toward the door, he met William coming in.  The old
fellow carried his coat thrown across one arm and was trying to button
his shirt collar.  It was his custom to begin dressing at his bedside,
grabbing up the first garment within reach, and to complete his work in
the office, the basement, or even the back yard.  "Hold on a minute," he
said to Bodney.  "Button this infernal collar for me."  Bodney halted to
obey. "Can’t you take hold of it?  Is it as slick as all that?  Do you
think I wear an eel around my neck? Confound it, don’t choke the life
out of me.  Get away.  I can do it better myself.  Didn’t I tell you to
quit?  Are you a bull-dog, that you have to hang on that way?"

Bodney trod heavily to his room.  The old fellow threw his coat on the
table and began to walk about, tugging at his collar.

"Do you think you can button it here better than in your own room?" the
Judge asked, straightening up and looking at him.  "Has this office been
set aside as a sort of dressing parade ground for you?"

William was muttering and fuming.  "I was Judge Lynch out West, once,
and was about to set a horse-thief free, but just then I incidentally
heard that he had sold collars and I ordered him hanged. Did you speak
to me, John?"

"I asked you a question."

"I knew a Universalist preacher that changed his religion on account of
a collar—swore that its inventor must necessarily go to the flames.
What was the question you asked me, John?"

"One that would have no more effect on you than a drop of water on the
back of a mole."

William buttoned his collar, tied his cravat, took a seat opposite his
brother and looked hard at him. "John, I see that your temper hasn’t
improved. And you have got up early to turn it loose on me. Now, what
have I done?  Hah, what have I done?"

"I have never heard of your doing anything, William."

"That’s intended as an insult.  Oh, I understand you.  You never heard
of my doing anything.  You haven’t?  You never heard of my electing two
governors out West.  You bat your eyes at the fact that I sent a man to
the United States Senate.  Why, at one time I owned the whole state of
Montana, and a man who had never done anything couldn’t—couldn’t make
that sort of showing."

"What did you do with the state?"

"What did I do with it?  A nice question to ask a man.  What did Adam do
with the Garden of Eden?"

"You were not driven out of Montana, were you?"

"Driven out?  Who said I was driven out?"

"But Adam was driven out of the garden."

"Oh, yes, of course.  I merely spoke of the Garden of Eden for the
reason that Adam’s claim on it was only sentimental, if I may call it
such.  I mean that I owned the good opinion of every man in the state.
I could have had anything within the gift of the commonwealth."

"Then, why didn’t you go to the Senate, or elect yourself governor?  Why
were you so thoughtless a prodigal of your influence?"

"That’s a nice question to ask a man.  Why didn’t you buy an acre in
this town that would have made you worth millions?  Why didn’t I go to
the Senate?  I had something else on my mind.  Every man is not
ambitious to hold office.  There’s something higher than politics.  I
was educated for a different sphere of action.  I was, as you know,
educated for a preacher, but my faith slipped from under me.  But it is
of no use to talk to you."

"Not much, William, I admit."

"But can’t you tell me why this peculiar change has come over you?  It
worries me, and you know why."

The Judge made a gesture.  "Don’t—it’s not that. My mind is perfectly
sound."

"Then, what’s the trouble?"

"I can’t tell you."

"Am I ever to know?"

"I hope not."

"I don’t see why you should give me the keen edge of your temper and not
tell me the cause that led you to whet it against me."

"I have not whetted it against you—it has been whetted on my heart.  Go
away, William, and leave me to myself."

"I would if you were yourself, but you are not. There is something the
matter with you."

"I grant that."

"And in it there is cause for alarm, both for you and for myself."

"Now, please don’t allude to that again.  My mind is perfectly sound, I
tell you."

"And so one dear to us often declared."

The Judge got up.  "I shall have to command you to leave this room."

"Then, of course, I’ll go.  Here comes your wife. Rachel, there is
something radically wrong with John, and I advise you to send for the
best physician in this town."




                             *CHAPTER IX.*

                      *HEARD A GONG IN THE ALLEY.*


More than once during the night had Mrs. Elbridge looked in upon her
husband, to urge upon him the necessity for rest.  But he had told her
that he had on hand the most important case that ever came to him,
declared that the life of a man depended upon his meditation; a new
point in law was involved, and it would be a crime to sleep until his
work was done.  The governor of the state had submitted the question to
him.  And thus had she been put off, having no cause to doubt him; but
now she caught William’s alarm.  "My dear," said the Judge, when she
approached him, "it seems that both you and my brother are struggling
hard to misunderstand me.  You know that I have never deceived you—you
know that I would tell you if there were anything wrong.  It is true
that the death of my brother Henry has shocked me greatly—"

"But why don’t you tell William?  He ought to know.  And it is our duty
to tell him."

The old man, looking toward the door, held up his hand.  "No, he must
not be told—nor must anyone else.  I have an object."

"But, my dear, I don’t see—"

"I know you don’t.  And I cannot tell you—I can—can merely hint.  It is
a question of life insurance, and the company must not hear of his death
till certain points are settled.  William, as you know, while one of the
best men in the world, has a slippery tongue.  And, besides, he is in no
condition now to hear bad news.  It is a secret, but he is having
trouble with his heart—under treatment. Let us wait till he is
stronger."

"But, dear, is that a cause why you should frown so at Howard, and treat
him with such contempt?"

He walked away from her, but she followed him and put her hand on his
arm.  They halted near the safe and stood in silence, he looking at the
iron chest, she looking at him.  The sound of a peddler’s gong came from
the alley, and he sprang back from the safe and dropped heavily down
upon a chair.  Florence was heard talking to someone, and Mrs. Elbridge
called her, and at this the old man brightened.  Florence was his
recourse, his safeguard, and when she came in he greeted her with
something of his former heartiness.

"Florence, they are worried about me.  Tell them that they have no
cause."

The young woman’s face was bright with a smile, but it was a light
without warmth, a kindly light intended to deceive, not the Judge, but
his wife. Mrs. Elbridge looked at her husband and was astonished at the
change in him.  She could not understand it, but she was not halting to
investigate causes.  "You are our physician, Florence," she said.  "But
you must bring your patient under better discipline.  He didn’t go to
bed at all last night."

"Then I shall have to reprimand him.  Sir, why do you disobey my
orders?"

The old man’s attempt at a smile was but a poor pretense, but it
deceived the eye of affection. "Because, Doctor, I had a most important
case on hand; but it is about worked out now, and I will in the future
have more regard for your instructions."

They talked pleasantly for a time, and then Mrs. Elbridge went out,
leaving the Judge and Florence in the office; but no sooner was the wife
gone than the husband began to droop; and the light of the forced smile
faded from the countenance of the young woman.  She looked at the Judge
and her face was stern.  "We are hypocrites for her," she said, nodding
toward the door through which Mrs. Elbridge had just passed.

"Yes, to protect the tenderest nature I have ever known.  She could not
stand such a trouble.  It would kill her."

"She would not believe your story."

"Yes, she would.  Unlike you, she could not be infatuated with the
blindness of her own faith.  She loves her son, but she knows me—loves
me.  She could not doubt my eyes.  What," he said, getting up with
energy and standing in front of Florence, "you are not debating with
yourself whether or not to tell her, are you?  Can you, for one moment,
forget your oath—an oath as solemn and as binding as any oath ever
taken?  You, surely, are not forgetting it."

"No, but I ought to.  My heart cries for permission to tell Howard.  His
distress reproaches me."

"But your oath."

"Oh, I shall not forget it, sir," she said, almost savagely.  "But, it
was not generous of you—not generous."

"What wasn’t?"

"Swearing me to secrecy.  You took advantage of what you conceive to be
my honor, my strength of character; and you would have me break his
heart by refusing to marry him.  You have a far-reaching cruelty."

"Florence—my daughter, you must not say that. You know why I would keep
you from marrying him.  Have I been a judge all these years, to find
that I am now incapable of pronouncing against my own affections and my
own flesh and blood?  I am broader than that."

"You mean that you are narrower than that.  It is noble to shield those
whom we love."

"No, it is selfish.  You are a woman, and therefore cannot see justice
as a man sees it."

"My eyes may not be clear enough to see justice, but they have never
beheld a vision to—"

"Don’t, Florence—now, please don’t.  You know how I held him in my
heart; you know that no vision could have driven him out.  But it is
useless to argue.  I have knowledge and you have faith. Knowledge is
brightest when the eye is opened wide; faith is strongest when the eye
is closed."

And thus she replied: "Ignorant faith may save a soul; knowledge alone
might damn it."

"Very good and very orthodox, my child; a saying, though, may be
orthodox, and yet but graze the outer edge of truth."

"But if there be so little truth in things orthodox, why should there be
such obligation in an oath?"

"Ah, you still have that in your mind.  Look at me.  I hold you to that
oath.  Will you keep it?"

"Yes, but if I did not believe that within a short time something might
occur to clear this mystery, I would break it in a minute."

"And let your soul be damned?"

"Now, you are orthodox.  Yes, I would break it. But I will wait, in the
belief that something must occur."

"There is no way too tortuous for a faith to travel," the old man
murmured, but then he bethought himself that to encourage waiting was a
furtherance of this humane plan of protection, and then he added: "Yes,
wait; we never know, of course.  Something might occur.  But make me a
promise, now in addition to your oath—that if, finally, when nothing
does occur and you are resolved to break it, that you will first come to
me."

"I will make that promise."

Agnes tripped in with a tune on her lips.  The Judge wondered why George
Bodney had not fallen in love with her.  She was bright enough and
pretty enough to ensnare the heart of any man.  But Bodney was peculiar,
and susceptibility to the blandishments of a bewildering eye was not one
of his traits; his nature held itself in reserve for a debasing
weakness.  Agnes asked Florence why everyone seemed to drift
unconsciously into that mouldy old office. Florence did not know, but
the Judge said that it was attractive to women because it was their
nature to find interest in the machinery of man’s affairs. Business was
the means with which man had established himself as woman’s superior,
and there was always a mystery in the appliances of his work-shop.

"What nonsense, Mr. Judge," said Agnes.  "It is because there is so much
freedom in here.  You can’t soil anything in here—never can in a place
where men stay."  Howard passed the door, and the Judge’s face darkened.
Florence looked at him and her eyes were not soft.

"Now, what are you frowning at, Mr. Judge?" said Agnes.  "Do you mean
that I haven’t told the truth?"

"You always tell the truth, Agnes."

"No, I don’t.  I told Mr. Bradley a fib—a small one, though; a little
white mouse of a fib.  But you have to tell fibs to a preacher."

"It is the way of life.  Fibs to a preacher and lies to a judge," said
the old man.

"Lies _for_ a judge," Florence spoke up.

"What’s the matter with everybody!" Agnes cried, looking from one to
another.  "You people talk in riddles to me.  I’m not used to it.  And,
Florence, you are getting to be so sober I don’t know what to do with
you.  You and the Judge are just alike.  What’s the matter with
everybody? Mr. Howard mumbles about the house and Mr. Bodney acts like a
man with—with the jerks, whatever that is, for I don’t know.  There, I’m
glad breakfast is ready.  Come on, Mr. Judge."




                              *CHAPTER X.*

                    *WILLIAM AGREED WITH THE JUDGE.*


The Judge took his accustomed seat at the head of the breakfast table,
Howard on his right and Bodney’s vacant chair at his left; but there was
no disposition on the part of the worry-haunted father to enter into
conversation with the son.  Howard was talkative; his mind might have
been termed dyspeptic instead of digestive.  The books, stories,
sketches, scraps that he read, ill-stored, appeared as a patchwork in
his talk.  He spoke of a French author, and Florence saw the Judge
wince.  She was sitting beside Howard, and she pulled at his coat sleeve
as a warning to drop the disagreeable name.  He understood and changed
the subject, but the fire had been kindled.

"It is no wonder that the French could not whip the Germans," said the
Judge, not addressing himself to Howard, but to the table.  "It was the
literature of France that weakened her armies.  Morality was destroyed,
and without morality there can be no enduring courage."

"I think Victor Hugo is just lovely," said Agnes. The Judge nodded
assent.  "A great genius—and, by the way, he said that there were but
three men worthy to be estimated as memorable in all the history of this
life—Moses, Shakespeare and Homer. He belonged to older and better
France, at the dying end of her greatness.  And you will observe that he
did not include a Frenchman in his list."

"But I warrant you," said Howard, "that in his secret mind he put
himself at the head of it."

The Judge looked at him.  "Warrants issued by you, sir, are not always
returnable accompanied by the facts."

"No, I wouldn’t issue a warrant for the arrest of a fact.  Truth ought
to be at large."

Florence glanced at the Judge and saw him slowly close his eyes and
slowly open them.  "You think Hugo lovely," said the old man, speaking
to Agnes. "But what do you think of Zola?"

"I don’t know anything about him.  But some of the girls said he was
horrid," she answered.

"It is a good thing for you that you don’t know anything about him, and
it reflects credit upon the judgment of the girls who pronounced him
horrid," said the Judge.  "His influence upon his own country, and upon
this country, too, has been most pernicious."

William was usually most prompt at meal time, but now he was for some
unaccountable reason delayed; but he came in just as the Judge closed
his remark concerning Zola, sat down and began to tuck a napkin under
his chin.  The Judge had more than once hinted his displeasure at this
vulgarity, but his brother continued to practice it, not without heeding
the hint, but with a defense of his custom. He had elected governors,
and was not to be ruled into discomfort by a woman who had written a
book on etiquette.  He knew politeness as well as the next man or next
woman, for that matter. Many a time had he seen Senator Bascomb, who
owed his election to him, sit down to table in his shirt sleeves, with a
napkin tucked into his bosom, and Washington City was compelled to
acknowledge him a man of brains.  The Judge stared at William, and was
doubtless about to repeat his hint, when Florence said something to
attract his eye, and shook her head at him.

"What have we under discussion this morning?" said William, squaring in
readiness to defend himself, for he ever expected an attack.

"French literature," Howard answered.

"French fiddlesticks," William replied.  "There is no French literature.
They have slop that they call literature."

"I thank you, William," said the Judge, forgetting the napkin.  This was
received by the former owner of Montana as proof that the Judge’s
ill-nature had been cured; and, bowing, he pulled the napkin from about
his jowl and spread it upon his knees.  And then arose a spirited
discussion between the political Warwick and Howard, the former
snatching a cue from his brother, affirming that the influence of France
had always been bad, the latter maintaining that France had civilized
and cultivated the modern world.  Florence pulled at Howard’s coat
sleeve; and the Judge, observing her, and irritated that she was moved
to employ restraint, threw off all attempt at an exercise of his
patience.  "Let him proceed!" he roared, and everyone looked at him in
surprise.  "Let him proceed to the end of his disgraceful advocacy of
corruption.  But I will not stay to hear it."  And, getting up, he bowed
himself out.

"Howard," said Mrs. Elbridge, "you ought not to talk about things that
irritate your father.  He is not well."

"You are wrong, Howard, to oppose him," Florence spoke up.

"I suppose I am," the young man admitted, "but he has always taught me
to form an opinion of my own and to hold it when once well formed, and
until recently he seemed pleased at what he termed my individuality and
independence.  But now I can’t do or say a thing to please him.  I’m no
child, and not a fool, I hope; then, why should I be treated as if I had
no sense at all?  What have I done that he should turn against me?  He
treats everyone else with consideration and respect.  He even has
toleration of Uncle William’s dates," he added, mischievously thrusting
at the old fellow for the recent stand he had taken, knowing that, with
him, it was the policy of the moment rather than the conviction of the
hour.

"What!" exclaimed William, with a bat of eye and a swell of jaw.
"Turned loose on me, have you?  Well, I want to tell you, sir, that I
won’t stand it.  I am aware that my forbearance heretofore may have
misled you with regard to the extent of my endurance, but I want to say
that you have made a mistake.  I am treated with consideration and
respect everywhere except in this household, and I won’t stand it,
that’s all."

"Thank you," Howard replied.

"Thank me!  Thank me for what?"

"You said, ’that’s all,’ and I thank you for it."

Mrs. Elbridge interposed with a mild and smiling admonition.  She shook
her finger at Howard. "Let him go ahead, Rachel," the old fellow spoke
up.  "Let him go ahead as far as his strength will permit him.
He’s—he’s set himself against us, and as he runs riot in the privilege
of the spoiled heir, why, I guess we’ll have to stand it—as long as we
can.  Of course, there’ll come a time when all bodily and moral strength
will fail us, but until then let him go ahead.  Yes, has set himself
against us."

"Us, did you say, Uncle Billy?  You are evidently one of the us.  Who’s
the other?" Howard asked, immensely tickled, for the warmth of the
family joke was most genial to him.

"I don’t want any of your Uncle Billying.  I always know what to expect
when you begin that."

"I began it the other night and ended by giving you a meerschaum pipe,
didn’t I?"

"Oh, meerschaum.  Chalk—if there ever was a piece used by a tailor to
mark out the angles of a raw-boned man—that pipe’s chalk.  You could no
more color it than you could a door-knob."

"A friend of mine brought it from Germany, Uncle Billy."

"Did he?  He brought it from a German beer garden, where they peddle
them in baskets and sell them by the paper bag full, like popcorn.  I
had my suspicions at the time."

"But you were willing to run the risk of acceptance because your pipe
was so strong."

The old fellow put down his knife and fork and, straightening up, looked
at Howard as if he would bore him through.  "I deny your slander, sir."

"So do I," said Howard.

"You do what?"

"Deny the slander—unless there is slander in truth."

"Howard, you remind me of a cart-horse, treading on his trace chains.
You remind me—I don’t know what you remind me of."

"Of a cart-horse, you said."

Again Mrs. Elbridge admonished him not to irritate the old fellow, but
did it so laughingly that he accepted it more as a spur than as a
restraint; and Florence pulled at his sleeve, but more in connivance
than in reproof.  Agnes laughed outright. She declared that it was
better than a circus.  The old man turned his eyes upon her, giving her
a long and steady gaze, and she whispered to Florence that even the
pin-feathers of his dignity had begun to rise.  "Better than a circus,"
he replied.  "I don’t see any similarity except that we have a clown."
He winked at Mrs. Elbridge, as if he expected her to rejoice in what he
believed to be a victory over the young man.  Marriage may cripple a
man’s opportunities—in some respects it may restrict his range of
vision, but it renders his near view much more nearly exact.  Having
never known the repressions of the married state—ignorant of the
intellectual clearing-house of matrimony—William was blind to many
things, and particularly to the fact that the mother hated him at that
moment, though she smiled when he winked at her.

"Not much like modern circuses," Howard admitted. "They have a whole
group of clowns, while we have but two, at most."

"Howard," said the old fellow, "do you mean to call me a clown?"

"Not a good one, Uncle William."

"Not a good one.  Well, sir, I want to say that I’d make a deuced sight
better one than you."  When emphasis was put upon the word, it meant,
with Uncle William, not the opprobrious, but the commendable.  During
his boyhood, to be a clown was to be greater than a judge, greater, if
possible, than the driver of a stage-coach.  In the old day, it was a
compliment to tell a boy that he would make a good clown.

"I don’t doubt you’d make a good clown, Uncle Billy.  Aspiration is,
within itself, a sort of fitness."

"What do you mean by that?"

"There is a certain genius in mere ambition," Howard went on.  "If we
yearn—and yearn, only, we come nearer to an achievement than those who
don’t yearn.  Who knows that genius is not desire—just desire, and
nothing more.  I know a man over at St. Jo that can eat more cherries
than any man in Michigan, not because he is larger than any of the rest,
but because he has a broader appetite for cherries—more yearning."

William turned to Mrs. Elbridge.  "Rachel, do you think he’s lost what
little sense he ever had."

"William," she said, "you must not talk to me that way.  I won’t put up
with it, sir.  I am sure he has as good sense as any—"

"Oh, if you are going to turn against me I guess I’d better go," he
broke in, getting up.  "I’ll go to my brother.  He at least can
understand me."

The Judge was in the office.  William entered, and, going up to the
desk, began to rummage among some papers.  "Trying to swim?" the Judge
asked, looking up from a document spread out before him on the table.

"No, I’m looking for a cigar."

"I thought you were trying to swim."

William stepped back from the desk.  "John, I didn’t expect such
treatment after our hearty agreement at the breakfast table.  But it’s
what I get for taking sides.  The neutral is the only man that gets
through this life in good shape."

"And is that the reason, William, that you didn’t preach—didn’t want to
take sides against the devil?"

"If I’m not wanted here, I can go to my own room."

"I wish you would.  I am expecting an old client."

"Oh, I can go."

"Can you?"

"John, your irritability has irritated everybody on the place.  You have
poisoned our atmosphere.  I will leave you."

"Thank you," said the Judge, examining the document before him.  After a
time, and still without looking up, he added: "Still here?"

"I have just come in, sir," said Howard.  The Judge looked up.

"I thought it was William."

"He has just gone out.  And I have come to beg your pardon for what I
said at breakfast.  I didn’t mean to worry you; I—"

"It is unnecessary to beg my pardon, sir."

"I hope not."  He moved closer, with one hand resting upon the table.
"Father, something is wrong, and—"

"Most decidedly."

"But won’t you please tell me what it is?  If the fault is in me and I
can reach it I will pull it out.  I could bear many crosses, but your
ill-opinion is too heavy."

The old man looked up at him.  "To your lack of virtue you have added
silly reading."

"But I am playing in a farce worse than any I have ever read.  Be frank
with me.  You have taught me frankness."

"And tried to teach you honesty."

"Yes, both by precept and example.  But what is to come of it all when
you treat me this way?  Why don’t you go to some springs?"

"Why don’t you leave me to myself?"

"I am almost afraid.  You rake up enmities against me when you are
alone, it seems; and you pour them out upon me when we meet.  Why is
it?"

The Judge waved him off.  "Go away," he said.




                             *CHAPTER XI.*

                           *THE OLD OFFICE.*


The office in La Salle Street was in an old-fashioned building, with
heavily ornamented front.  The room was large, high of ceiling, with a
grate and a marble mantlepiece.  It was on the first floor, after the
short flight of iron steps leading from the pavement.  Once it had been
active with business, but now few clients found their way into its dingy
precincts.  Occasionally some old-timer would come in, but upon seeing
Howard or Bodney, faces offensively young to him, would go out again,
sighing over the degeneracy of the day.  The young men had often advised
a change of quarters, apartments in a steel building, but the Judge
would not consent.  The old room was sentiment’s heritage. Many a famous
man had trod the rough carpet on the floor; many a time had the dry eye
of the tired lawyer watered at the wit of Emery Storrs; and Ingersoll,
warm with fellowship and wine, walking up and down, had poured out the
overflow of his magic brain.  How intellectual were its surroundings
then, and now how different!  The great advocate was gone, and in his
stead sat the real-estate lawyer, emotionless, keen-eyed, searching out
the pedigree of a title to a few feet of soil—narrow, direct, dyspeptic,
money-dwarfed.

After leaving home, Howard went straightway to the down-town office, and
there, amid the dust raised by the negro who was sweeping, he found
Goyle, waiting for Bodney.  "I have taken possession," said Goyle.

"All right.  And you are taking more dust than is good for you."

"I don’t mind that.  Where is Bodney?"

"He hadn’t got up when I left home.  He was up all night with a sick
friend, I believe, and is not likely to be down before the afternoon."

Goyle looked at his watch.  "I will come in again about three o’clock.
How is business with you?"  He did not get up.

"The business of waiting is good.  It is about all a young lawyer need
expect."  Howard sat down, telling the negro to leave off sweeping; and
Goyle, leaning back, put his feet upon the window ledge. He was never in
haste to leave.  It was one of his sayings that he was looking for a
soft seat, and he appeared now to have found one.  He gazed out into the
rumbling thoroughfare, at men of all ages passing one another, pushing,
jamming, limping, some on crutches, some tottering, some strong of limb,
all with eager faces.  "Rushing after the dollar," said Goyle.

"Or fleeing from necessity," replied Howard.

"Yes, and hard pressed by the enemy.  But they have made their enemy
powerful—have built up their necessities.  Once a shadow lay upon the
ground, a harmless thing; but they breathed hot breath upon it and it
became a thing of life, jumped up and took after them.  I hate the whole
scheme."  He waved his hand, and Howard sat looking at him—at the hair
curling about his forehead, at his Greek nose; and he wondered why one
so seemingly fitted for the chase should express such contempt for it.
He spoke of it, and Goyle turned toward him with a cold smile.  "You
have heard," said he, "of the fellow who would rather be a cat in hell
without claws.  Well, that’s what I am, and where I am when thrown out
there."  He nodded toward the street, and then lazily taking out a
cigarette, lighted it.

"I don’t believe that," said Howard.  "I believe that you are well
fitted, except, possibly, by disposition.  You lack patience."

"Patience!  It doesn’t admit of patience.  Do those fellows out there
look patient?"

"A man may run and be patient."

"And he may also run and be a fool."

"Or be a bigger fool and not run.  I am a believer in the world—in man."

"I’m not," said Goyle.  "I know that the world is a trap and that man is
caught.  Puppies play, but the old dog lies down.  He knows that life is
a farce."

"The old dog lies down, it is true," Howard replied, "but he dreams of
his youth and barks in his dream."

"And calls himself a fool when he awakes.  It is the same with the old
man.  There comes a time when he loses confidence even in those who are
nearest him."  Out of the sharp corner of his eye he shot a glance at
Howard and saw his countenance change.  An old man, shriveled and
wretched, with feather dusters for sale, came shambling into the room.
Goyle glanced at him, and when he was gone, turned to Howard and said:
"Ask his opinion of the world.  He is your old dog who dreamed and
barked in his dream."

"Goyle, I don’t like the position you take.  My experience and my
reading teach me better."

Goyle glanced at him again.  "Your reading, because what you read was
written to flatter hope—to sell.  Your experience is not ripe.  It is
not even green fruit.  It is a bud.  Oh, of course there are some old
men, your father, for instance, who—"

"Well, what about him?"

"Nothing, only he is by nature fitted to smile at everything."

Howard got up, went over to a bookcase, took down a book, put it back,
went to the open door, and stood there looking at a doctor’s sign, just
across the hall.  Goyle got up with a yawn, came walking slowly toward
the door, and Howard, hearing him, but without looking round, stepped
aside to let him pass out.  In the hall he halted to repeat that he
would return during the afternoon.

"You have the privilege to come and go as often as you like, being
George’s friend," said Howard, "but, so far as you and I are concerned,
I don’t think we are suited to each other."

Goyle laughed and stepped back a pace or two. "Why, on account of my
nonsense just now?  That was all guff; I didn’t mean it.  It is the
easiest thing in the world for a man to condemn the whole of creation,
and I talk that way when my mind is too dull to act.  Why, I am going
out now to knock an eye tooth out of the wolf."

"And you didn’t mean what you said about old men?"

"Not a word of it."

"Why did you happen to speak of my father?"

"Merely to refute what I had said about old men in general.  Well, so
long."

Howard went into the doctor’s office, as musty a den as ever a fox
inhabited.  The physician was an old man, who had no future and who
prescribed in the past.  During the best years of his life he had dozed
or talked under the influence of opium, so given to harmless fabrication
when awake that it followed him into his slumber, snoring a lie; now
cured of the habit but not of the evil it had wrought. When Howard
entered the old man was reading a medical journal of 1849, and he
glanced up disappointed to see the visitor looking so well.  He had met
Howard many a time, but his memory was short.

"Ah, come in, sir.  Have a seat.  You are—let me see.

"My office is just across the hall."

"Yes, yes, I remember.  You are in the—the brokerage business.  And your
name is—"

"I am trying to be a lawyer.  Elbridge is my name."

"Of course it is.  I used to know your father—was called in consultation
just before he died."

"Then it must have been since I left the house this morning."

"Ah, let me see.  Elbridge—the Judge.  I’m wrong, of course.  It was
Elsworth.  How is your father?"

"That’s what I wanted to talk about, and I am sorry that you do not
recall him more vividly.  I wanted to ask your opinion."

"Why, now I know him as well as I know myself. What is it you wish to
consult me about?  His health?"

"Well, I hardly know how to get at it.  You know he has been a very busy
man—working day and night for years; and I wanted to ask if a sudden
breaking off isn’t dangerous—that is, not exactly dangerous, but likely
to induce a change in disposition?"

The doctor looked wise, with his hand flat upon the medical journal, and
as it had been printed in the drowsy afternoon of a slow day, seemed to
inspire caution against a quick opinion.

"I hold, and have held for years," said he, "that a complete revolution
in a man’s affairs, sudden riches or sudden poverty—the er—the
withdrawing of vital forces necessary to a continuous strain, is a shock
to the system, and therefore deleterious.  It is unquestionably a fact,
not only known to the medical fraternity, but to ordinary observation,
that incentive in the aged is a sort of continuance of youth, in other
words, to make myself perfectly clear, the impetus of youth when
unchecked, goes far into old age—when the pursuit has not been changed;
and therefore a sudden halting is bad for the system.  Is your father’s
health impaired?"

"I can’t say that it is.  He appears to be strong, but his temper is not
of the best—toward me. Toward the others he is just the same."

"Ah, not unusual in such cases.  It so happened that a sudden change
must have taken place in him, and as you were doubtless the first one to
come in contact with him after the change, his—his displeasure, if I may
be permitted the term, fell upon you."

"But I was not the first one."

"Um, a complication.  I shall have to study that up a little.  Perhaps
I’d better see him."

"Oh, no, don’t do that.  It really amounts to nothing.  I consulted you
because you were well acquainted with him.  And I am now inclined to
think that I have made more of it than it really is. How are you getting
along?" Howard asked, to change the subject.

"Never better, sir, I am pleased to say.  Of course medicine has
degenerated, splitting up into all sorts of specialties, but there are a
few people who don’t want to be humbugged.  Well, I am glad you called,"
he added as Howard turned to go.  "Give my regards to your father."

Howard returned to the office, took up a book which held in closer
affinity the laws of verse than the laws of the land, and lying down
upon a leather lounge, was borne away by the gentle tide of a rhythmic
sea.




                             *CHAPTER XII.*

                         *WALKED AND REPENTED.*


A man can be more repentant when he walks than when he rides.  The
world’s most meditative highway is that road which we are told is paved
with good intentions; and strolling along it, our determination to
reform becomes stronger at each step until—until something occurs to
change it all. Bodney walked down town.  And for the first time in his
life he fancied that he found the very bottom of his mind, and thereon
lay a resolution, an oath self-made, self-sworn to tell Howard the truth
and to take the consequences no matter what they might be.  He had
intended, upon getting out of bed to make his confession to the old
gentleman, and he would have done so, he fully believed, had not the
Judge been engaged with a client.  But perhaps after all it would better
serve the purposes of justice to confess to Howard.  He was the one most
deeply injured.  Yes, he would go at once to Howard and tell him the
truth.  It would of course involve Goyle, but he ought to be involved;
he was a scoundrel.  Perhaps they might both be sent to the
penitentiary.  No matter, the confession must be made. He passed the
building wherein the night before he had agonized under the frown of
hard luck; he halted and looked into the entry-way, at the stairs worn
and splintered by the heavy feet of the unfortunate.  Some strange
influence had fallen upon him, some strength not gathered by his own
vital forces had come to him, and now he knew that no longer could he be
a slave held by chains forged in that house of bondage.  As he turned
away he met a man who had been in the game the night before. His face
was bright and he did not look like a slave.

"How did you come out?" Bodney asked.

"I was ninety in when you left, and I pull out sixty winner."

"You did?  You were losing when I left."

"Yes, but they can’t beat a man all the time.  I tell you it would put
me in the hole if I didn’t win. I owe at three or four places, and I go
around today and pay up."

Then, with a feeling like a sudden sickness at the stomach, came the
recollection of the druggist and the preacher, obligations not to be
discharged that day.  Long after the moral nature has been weakened, the
poker player may continue to respect his own word, or rather he may not
respect it himself but may desire others to do so.  Unless his income is
large he must operate mainly upon borrowed capital, and breaking his
word cripples his resources. And then, after having lost, there is a
self-shame in having borrowed, a confession of weakness.  He condemns
himself for not having had strength enough to quit when he found that
there was no chance to get even.  "There never is a chance to get even,"
Bodney mused as he walked on toward the office.  "The old fellow who has
worn himself out at the cursed game says so and I believe it.  I will
tell Howard—nothing shall shake my resolution. I will simply cut my
throat before I’ll sink myself further in this iniquity.  By nature I am
not dishonest.  If I hadn’t met that fellow Goyle I might—but I’ll not
think of him.  Now that fellow didn’t play any better cards than I did,
was nearly a hundred in and pulled out sixty ahead.  And he has paid his
debts while I must dodge.  I wonder how much I have lost within the past
two months.  On an average of fifty dollars a sitting.  That won’t do.
I had money enough to—but I won’t think about it—won’t do any good, and
besides it is over with now."

He found Howard in the office writing.  "A brief?" said Bodney, sitting
down.

"In one sense—short meter," Howard replied.

"What, poetry?"

"Rhyme.  I come by it naturally, you know. Have you heard from your
friend today, the one you sat up with?"

"Yes, he’s better."

"Goyle was here—said he’d be back this afternoon."

"Didn’t leave any money—didn’t say what he wanted, did he?"

"No.  I think he wants to talk more than anything else.  He is a smart
fellow, George, but I am beginning to find fault with him.  I don’t like
his principles."

"Perhaps he has none," Bodney replied.

"What, have you begun to—"

"Oh, no, I merely said that."

"That’s the way he talks—makes a statement and then declares he didn’t
mean it.  By the way, I’m going to get out of this office.  There’s no
use staying here.  If father wants to keep it, let him; but you and I
ought to be in a more modern building. We have played at the law long
enough.  What do you say?"

"I don’t know but you are right.  I would like to do something.  Has
anyone else called?"

"Yes, Bradley was here."

"Bradley!  What did he want?"

"He didn’t say what he wanted."

"What did he say?"

"He inquired about your friend—the divinity student."

Bodney was silent, and to him it seemed that he was groping about in his
own mind, searching for his resolution, but he could not find it.  The
preacher might have asked about the divinity student, the wretch mused,
but of course he wanted ten dollars; and what if it should be known at
the house that he had borrowed the money?

"Howard, can you let me have twenty-five dollars?"

"What, haven’t you—you any money?"

"None that I can get hold of.  I haven’t said anything about it, but the
fact is, I have invested in suburban lots, and can make a good profit
any time I care to sell out, but I don’t want to sell just now."

"Ah, business man, eh?" said Howard, crumpling the paper which he had
covered with rhymes and throwing it into the waste basket.  "Well, I am
going to do something of that sort myself.  I am glad you told me.  Yes,
I’ll let you have twenty-five.  I have just about that amount with me."

Bodney took the money and seized his hat.  "If Goyle comes in, tell him
I don’t know when I’ll be back.  By the way, do you suppose Bradley went
home?"

[Illustration: Bodney took the money.]

"Yes, I think so—in fact, he remarked that he was going home to do some
work.  Why?"

"Nothing, only he seemed interested in the young fellow I sat up
with—wanted to go with me to see him, in fact."

With a determination to pay the druggist and to go at once to Bradley’s
house, Bodney left the office, still wondering, though, what had become
of his resolve to make a confession to Howard.  But he would fortify
himself against trivial annoyances and then, morally stronger, he could
confess.  As he was crossing the street he thought of the fellow who had
won sixty dollars.  "No better player than I am," he mused.  "He hung
on, that’s all.  Now, when I pay the preacher and the druggist I’ll have
five dollars left.  And with that five dollars I might win out.  If I
had held to my resolution not to stay in on so many four flushes I might
have won out anyway.  But the other fellows filled flushes and straights
against me.  Why couldn’t I against them?  Simply because it wasn’t my
day.  But this may be my day.  My day must come some time. As that
fellow said, ’they can’t beat a man all the time.’  Why not go to the
club first?  Then, if I win, I can easily meet my obligations."

He went to the club.  The game was full, but a "house" player got up and
gave him a seat.  He bought ten dollars’ worth of chips, and the first
hand he picked up was three queens.  The pot was opened ahead of him and
another man came in. Bodney raised; they stood it, and drew one card
each.  To disguise his hand, Bodney drew one, holding up a six.  He
caught a six.  The opener bet a white chip.  The next man raised him
three dollars.  Bodney raised all he had.  The opener laid down; the
other man studied.  "Is it that bad?" he asked, peeping at the tips of
his cards.  Bodney said nothing; his blood was tingling, but in his eyes
there was a far-away look.

"It’s up to you, Griff," said an impatient fellow.

"Yes, so I see; but I’m playing this hand. Raised it and drew one card,
then raised a one-card draw.  Well, I’ve got to call you."

"Queen full."

"Beats a flush.  Take the hay."

And now Bodney’s troubles all were luminous. The wine of the game flowed
through his veins and made his heart drunk with delight.  He held a pat
flush, won a big pot and felt a delicious coolness in his mind, the
chamber wherein he had groped through darkness, searching for the lost
resolution. But now it was light, and was crowded with charming fancies.
He bubbled wit and simmered humor, and the look-out man said, "you bet,
he’s a good one."  His stack was building so high that he could hardly
keep from knocking it over—did overturn it with a crash, and a loud
voice called to the porter: "Chip on the floor."  The man attendant upon
the desk came over, put his hand on Bodney’s shoulder and said: "Give it
to ’em; eat ’em up."

In the game there was a mind-reader, and they called him Professor.  In
his "studio" he told marvelous things, brought up the past and read the
future.  Hundreds of persons consulted him, race-track men looking for
tips, board of trade men wanting to know the coming trend of the market;
and in the twilight came the blushing maiden to ask if her lover were
true.  In deepest secret you might write a dozen questions, put them in
your pocket and button your coat, but the Professor could read them.  He
was unquestionably a mind-reader—till he sat down to play poker—and then
his marvelous powers failed him.  The most unintuitive man at the table
could beat him. Bodney slaughtered him.  "Can you make those things
every time?" said the Professor, calling a three-dollar bet.

"Not every time," Bodney replied, spreading a straight, "but I made it
this time."

"You can make them every time against me. You are the luckiest man I
ever saw.  Do you always win?"

"I have lost more within the last two months than any man that comes up
the stairs."

"That’s right," said the look-out.

One wretched fellow, who had been struggling hard, got up broke.  He
strove to appear unconcerned, but despair was written on his face.  As
he walked across the room toward the door the man at the desk called to
him.  He turned with the light of a vague hope in his eye.  In
consideration of his hard luck was the house about to stake him? "Have a
cigar before you go," said the man at the desk.  The light went out of
the wretch’s eye.  He took the cigar and drooped away, to beg for an
extension from his landlord, to plead with the grocer, to lie to his
wife.

At six o’clock Bodney cashed in one hundred and four dollars.  He would
eat dinner with them, but he would not play afterward.  He had tried
that before.  His eye-tooth had not only been cut; it had been sharpened
to the point of keenest wisdom.  While he was at the dinner table Goyle
came in and took a seat behind him.

"Understand you sewed up the game," said the master.

"I’ve got just about enough to pay up what I owe," replied the slave.

"Come off.  Let me have twenty."

"I can’t do it—swear I can’t.  I owe all round town.  I let you have ten
yesterday, you know."

"That’s all right.  You’ll get it again—you know that.  Let me have
twenty."

"I can’t possibly do it."

But he did.  Goyle got up and walked out into the hall with him, put his
hand on his arm and stood a long time, talking, gazing into his eyes.
So Bodney gave him the money and hastened away, his spirits somewhat
dampened.  But his heart was still light enough to keep him pleased with
himself. Luck had surely turned.  He would win enough to replace the
money taken from the safe, and then he would make a confession.  But,
that fellow Goyle!  What was the secret of his infatuating influence?
How did he inspire common words with such power, invest mere slang with
such command?  But his influence could not last; indeed, it was
weakening.  And when thus he mused his heart grew lighter.  "He couldn’t
make me aid and abet a robbery now," he said.  "I would turn on him and
rend him.  Let him take the money.  The debt is now large enough to make
him shun me."  With a smile and a merry salutation he stepped into the
drug store, and handed the druggist ten dollars, apologizing for not
having called during the day, but he had been busy and did not suppose
that it would make any particular difference. The druggist assured him
that it did not.  Good fortune in its many phases may be taken as a
matter of course, but the return of borrowed money is nearly always a
surprise.  The druggist gave him a cigar.

"Thank you," said Bodney.  "By the way, have you an envelope and stamp?"

He found an envelope, but no stamp.  A young woman who had held his
telephone for ten minutes had bought the last one.  It was of no
consequence; Bodney could get one at the next corner. Tearing a scrap of
paper out of his notebook and putting it upon a show case, he scribbled
a few lines upon it, folded a ten dollar note in the paper, enclosed it
in the envelope and directed it to Bradley.

"I guess that ought to be safe enough," he said.

"I don’t know," replied the druggist.

"Well, I’ll risk it.  Again let me thank you for your kindness.  It
isn’t often that I am forced to borrow, and wouldn’t have done so last
night but for—"

"Oh, that’s all right.  Come in again," he added, as Bodney stepped out.
At the next corner he stamped his letter and went out to drop it into a
box, but before reaching it was accosted by someone, the Professor whom
he had slaughtered in the game.

"How did you come out?" Bodney asked.

"You broke me."

"Didn’t you sit in after dinner?"

"For about three minutes—first hand finished me. I see you have a letter
there with ten dollars in it."

"What!  How do you know?"

"And a note written with a pencil."

"Why, that’s marvelous.  How do you do it?"

The Professor smiled.  "It is the line of my business.  Why don’t you
come up to my place some time?  I can tell you many things."

It flashed through Bodney’s mind that he might tell him many things, and
he shrank back from him. "I will, one of these days," he said, and
strode off without dropping his letter into the box.  He put it into his
pocket, intending to stop at the next corner, but forgot it.  "Now,
what?" he mused. "Believe I’ll go home."  He got on a car, but stepped
off before it started.  He went to a hotel, into the reading room, and
took up a newspaper, but found nothing interesting in it.  His thoughts
were upon the game.  In his mind was the red glare of a pat diamond
flush.  He could see it as vividly as if it had been held before his
eye.  Was it prophetic?  He strolled out, not in the direction of the
Wexton Club; but he changed his course, and was soon mounting the
stairs.  There was no seat, but the man at the desk said that there were
enough players to start another game.  The game was organized with four
regulars, Bodney and another fool.  The regulars took twenty dollars’
worth of chips apiece; the two fools took ten, and within ten minutes
Bodney was buying more.  A man got up from the other table, and Bodney
returned to his old seat, where he knew that luck waited for him.  The
desk man came over to him.  "That other gentleman is number one," said
he.  Just then a new arrival took the seat which Bodney had vacated and
number one called out: "Let him go ahead.  I’ll stay here."  And there,
sure enough, was the pat diamond flush.  Wasn’t it singular that he
should have seen it glowing upon the surface of his mind?  And wasn’t it
fortunate that the pot was opened ahead of him?  He raised and the
opener stayed and drew one card.  He bet a white chip and Bodney raised.
The opener gave him what was termed the "back wash," re-raised.  Then
the beauty of the flush began to fade.  Could it be that the fellow—the
very same offensive fellow, who had beaten him before—could have filled
his hand? Or, had he drawn to threes and "sized" Bodney for a revengeful
"bluff?"

"Well, I’ll have to call you," said Bodney.  He put in his money and the
offensive fellow showed him a ten full.

"You always beat me."

"I do whenever I can."

"But you make it a point to beat me."

"Make it a point to beat anybody."

"Well, I don’t want any abuse and I won’t have it."

"Play cards, boys," said the look-out.

"What’s the matter with you, worms?" said the offensive fellow, looking
at Bodney.

"Play like brothers," spoke up the look-out.

At a little after eleven o’clock Bodney came down as heavy as a drowned
man.  His heart was full of bitterness.  He cursed the world and all
that was in it.  He called on God to strike him dead.  Then he swore
that there could be no God; there was nothing but evil and he was the
embodiment of it. But if he had only ten dollars he could win out. He
had won, and it was but reason to suppose that he could win again.  Any
old player, imbued with the superstitions of the game, would have told
him that to go back was to lose.  "I’ll go over and see that druggist
again," he mused.  "Strange that I have lived in this town all my life
and don’t know where to get money after eleven o’clock at night.  I
ought to have set my stakes better than that.  And now, what excuse can
I give for coming back to borrow again so soon?  Perhaps he isn’t
there."  Nor was he there.  Bodney looked in with anxiety toward the
show case behind which he expected to see his friend, and with contempt
at the soda-water man.  He thought of the envelope.  He pictured himself
standing there, smiling, a few hours before—and like an arrow came the
recollection of the note directed to the preacher.  He wheeled about,
rushed across the street, jostling through the crowd which was still
thick upon the sidewalk, raced around the corner, swam through another
crowd, bounded across another street just in front of a cable train,
and, breathless, panted up the stairway leading to the Wexton.  Before
touching the electric button he tore open the envelope, took out the
money, destroyed the note; he touched the button and wondered if the
black porter would ever come.  Undoubtedly the game must have broken up.
No, there was the black face, grim in the vitreous light.  And there was
a vacant seat, his old, lucky seat.

"Bring me ten," he called, as he sat down.  And addressing the look-out,
he asked if Goyle had been there.  He had played a few pots after
dinner, but had quit early.

"Did he win?"

"I think he win a few dollars.  Said he had an engagement on the West
Side."

"Leave me out," said a man, counting his imposing stack of chips.
"Never mind, I’ll play this one."  A hand had been dealt him.  "But I’ve
got to go after this hand; oughtn’t to stay as long as I do.  Got to
catch a train.  Who opened it?"

"I did," replied a regular.

"Raise you."

"So soon?  Well, I’ll have to trot you.  Tear me one off the roof."

"I’ll play these," said the man who had to catch a train.

"You’d better take some.  He won’t come round again.  Well, I’ll chip it
up to you."

"Raise you three."

The regular raised him back.  The man who had to go raised, and the
regular fired back at him, nor did the contest end here, but when it did
end the regular spread an ace full to overcast with the shade of defeat
three queens and a pair.  And the man who had been in a hurry continued
to sit there.  At short intervals, during half an hour or more, he had
snapped his watch, but he did not snap it now. Trains might come and
trains might go, but he was not compelled to catch them; he lost his
last chip, bought more, lost, and, finally, accepted carfare from the
man at the desk.  Bodney won, and the world threw off its sables and put
on bright attire, and at two o’clock he thought of cashing in, though
not quite even.  He lacked just seventy-five cents—three red chips.  He
would play one more pot.  He lost, and now he was two dollars behind,
the pot having been opened for a dollar and twenty-five cents.  Pretty
soon he had a big hand beaten.

"I see my finish," he said.

"You can’t win every pot," replied a railway engineer, who had failed to
take out his train.  "I have four pat hands beat and every set of threes
I pick up.  Serves me right.  Pot somebody for a bottle of beer."

"You’re on," replied the dealer, a comical-looking countryman, known as
Cy.  "Deal ’em lower, I can see every card," someone remarked; and just
at that moment Cy turned over a deuce and replied: "Can’t deal ’em much
lower than that, can I?"

But who is this going down the stairs just as daylight is breaking?  And
why is he making such gestures?  It is Bodney, and he is swearing that
he will never play again.




                            *CHAPTER XIII.*

                        *WANTED TO SEE HIS SON.*


Howard had shared his father’s sentiment with regard to the old office,
for then the sky was clear, but now a cloud had come the atmosphere was
changed.  And on his way home to dinner, after a day spent without
progress, he formed a resolve to tell the old gentleman that he needed a
fresher and a brisker air than that blown about the ancient temple of
lore.  It ought not to hurt him now since he had begun to look upon his
son with an eye so dark with censure.  Even if his affection had been
withdrawn his blood-interest must surely still remain, the young man
mused; even though sentiment were dead, there must remain alive a desire
to see him prosper, and to prosper in that old place was impossible.  He
believed that his father was losing his mind; years of dry opinion, of
unyielding fact and the dead weight of precedent growing heavier,
smothered his mental life.

The household, with the exception of the Judge, was at dinner, and when
Howard entered the dining room his mother arose hastily and came to meet
him.  "Your father wants to see you in the office," she said, and
putting her hand on his arm, she added: "I don’t know what he wants, but
no matter what it is, please bear with him—don’t say anything to annoy
him."

"Has anything happened?" Howard asked.

"Something, but I don’t know what.  Someone called, I heard loud talking
in the office, and after the caller had gone, your father came out and
said that he wanted to see you as soon as you arrived. Be gentle with
him, dear."

The old gentleman was sitting at his desk when Howard entered the
office.  He got up and for a time stood looking at the young man with no
word of explanation.  "Well, sir," he said, after a time, "what will you
do next?"

"What have I done now?"

"No quibbling, sir.  You know what you have done."

"I pledge you my honor I do not."

"Pledge me your what!  Pledge me your old clothes, but not your honor."

"You wanted to see me, so mother says, and now I should like to know
why."

"I suppose that you are so innocent that you can’t even guess.  Or is it
that you are so forgetful of your deeds that you cannot remember?  Why
did you send that old fool out here?"

"Send an old fool out here!  I didn’t send anyone."

The old man took a step toward him with his finger uplifted.  His eyes
were full of anger and his finger shook, a willow in the wind.  "How can
you deny it?  You sent old Dr. Risbin, the morphine eater, out here to
see me."

"Oh, did he come out here?  But I swear I did not send him.  In fact, I
told him not to come."

"Ah, and is that the reason he came—because you told him not to?  He was
never here before in his life, and why should he say that you sent him?"

"Because he is a poor old liar, I suppose.  I admit that I saw him in
his office and—"

"A gradual acknowledgment is better than no acknowledgment at all.  Why
did you see him in his office, or why did you speak of me?"

"Father, if you’ll only be patient with me I will tell you.  Your
bearing toward me has been distressful.  I was afraid that your mind—"

"Enough of that.  My mind is sounder, sir, than yours will ever be.
But, suppose something were wrong.  Is he the physician to consult?
Why, his mind has been dead for years.  Why did you consult him if it
were not in contempt of me?  I ask you why?"

"I was standing in the door of our office and happened to notice his
sign just across the hall; and I thought that as he knew you well, I
would speak to him.  I soon saw that he didn’t know what he was talking
about, and when he suggested that he ought to see you, I told him no,
and changed the subject.  That’s my offense, and I beg your pardon."

"I will try to believe you," said the Judge, sitting down.  "Your office
is down town.  This one is mine."

"Yes, sir, and I will not intrude.  I wouldn’t have come in but you
wanted—"

The Judge waved his hand.  "Our business has been transacted."

"Yours has, but I have something to say.  I don’t want to occupy that
musty old den any longer.  It doesn’t make any difference to me if there
are a thousand javelins of wit sticking in the walls, or a thousand
ghosts of oratory floating in the air, I can’t make a living so long as
I stay in it.  I don’t want to be of the past, but of the present.  Your
success was not a past but a present, and my present is as valuable to
me as yours was to you."

"You are at liberty to get out of that office as soon as you like.  But
before you go, put up some sort of emblem expressive of your contempt of
all its memories.  Stuff out a suit of old clothes with straw, a
scarecrow of the past, set it at the desk and call it—me."

"Please don’t talk to me that way.  I don’t mean any disrespect—I want
to establish myself on a modern footing.  You know that Florence and I—"

"Don’t speak of her."

"Why not?  She is to be my wife."

"Not with my consent."

"Your consent is desirable, but not absolutely necessary.  I don’t mean
this in impudence; I mean it merely to show my—our determination. I
don’t know why you should oppose our marriage, and I have no idea as to
what extent you will oppose it, but I wish to say that no extreme will
have any effect.  You say that you are not ill; you swear that your mind
is not affected, and yet you refuse to tell me the cause of your change
toward me.  I must have done something, either consciously or
unconsciously, and now again I beg of you to tell me what it is."

The old man leaned forward with his eyes bent upon the floor.  "I have
seen great actors, but this—go away, Howard.  Leave me alone."

"Am I ever to know, sir?"

The old man pointed toward the door, and Howard walked slowly out.  His
mother stood in the hall.  Her eyes were tearful, and taking his arm she
held it as if she would say something, but liberated him, motioned him
away, and went into the office.  The Judge got up, forcing a change upon
his countenance, smiled at her, took her hand and led her to a chair.
"Now, don’t be worried," said he.  "I merely reprimanded Howard, as I
had a right to do, for sending an old fool, who calls himself a doctor,
out here to see me.  That’s all."

[Illustration: The old man pointed toward the door, and Howard walked
slowly out.]

"But what did you mean by calling him an actor?  What has he done that
he should be acting now?"

"Nothing—nothing at all, I assure you."

"You said he was acting," she persisted.

"Perhaps I did, but I didn’t mean it.  Oh, yes, acting as if he didn’t
care for the memories of the old office."

"But, dear, something has come between you and Howard.  What is it?"

"Between us, my dear?  Surely not.  We don’t agree on all points; he has
his opinions and I have mine; but there is no serious difference between
us.  Come, I will show you.  He and I will eat dinner together."

He led her to the dining room, where Howard sat moodily looking at the
table.  He glanced up, and the Judge waved his hand with something of
his old-time graciousness.  "Any callers today, Howard?" he asked,
sitting down.

"Goyle, whom I am beginning not to like, and Mr. Bradley."

"Whom you cannot help but like.  A good man, conscientious and yet not
creed-bound."

"He is building up a great church," said Mrs. Elbridge. "It is almost
impossible to get a seat."

"Ah, I don’t attend as regularly as I should," remarked the Judge, "but
I am going to mend my ways.  Howard, shall we go together soon?"

"I shall be delighted, sir."

"Then let us appoint an early day."

The father and the son laughed with each other, and to the mother it was
as if new strings, to replace broken ones, had been put upon an old
guitar, and she was happy merely to listen; but soon she was called
away, attendant upon some duty, and then a darkness fell upon the old
man’s countenance.  "Enough of this," he said.  And there was more than
surprise in the look which Howard gave him—there was grief in it.  "Then
your good humor was assumed," he replied.

"We may assume good humor as we assume honesty—for policy," the Judge
rejoined.

"I swear I don’t understand you."

"Then don’t strive to do so when your mother is present.  At such times,
take me as you find me."

"My pleasure just now was real.  It is a grief to know that yours was
not.  I was in hopes that our difference, whatever it is, for I don’t
know, was at an end.  You led me to believe so."

"Lay no store by what you suppose I lead you to believe.  When our
difference shall reach an end, if such a thing is possible, I will tell
you."

"Then you acknowledge a difference."

"I have not denied it."

"And you will not tell what it is?"

"Now, you are mocking me.  Ah, come in, my dear."  Mrs. Elbridge had
returned.  "Yes, we will go to hear Bradley preach.  And I warrant I can
remember more of the sermon than you."

"Mr. Bradley is here now," said Mrs. Elbridge.

"Ah, is he?  Did you tell him I would be in pretty soon?"

"He has come to see Agnes, I think.  He asked for her."

"Ah, the sly dog.  Well, he couldn’t ask for a better girl.  Are you
going, Howard?"

"Yes, sir, to take a walk with Florence, if she cares to go."

The Judge frowned, but his wife did not notice it. Howard did, however,
and was sorry that he spoke of his intention, but he had no opportunity
to apologize, if indeed he felt an inclination to do so.  It was a
sorrow to feel that his father was set against him, but to know that he
was trying to influence the girl was more than a sorrow—it was a grief
hardened with anger.  He found Florence and they went out together,
walking southward.

"How soft the air is," she said.

"Nature is breathing low."

They walked on in silence beneath the cottonwoods and elms.  Laughter,
the buzz of talk and tunes softly hummed came from door-steps and
porticos where families and visitors were gathered, to the disgust of
Astors and flunkies from over the sea.

"Florence," said Howard, "before I came home this evening I was
determined to move out of that old building down town, and to get an
office in a modern building.  But now I have decided upon something
else."

"To remain there out of respect for your father and his memories?"

"No.  To get away from this town—out West, to build a home for you.  I
hope you don’t object."

"Object.  I am pleased.  I think it is the very wisest thing you could
do.  And as soon as you are ready for me, I will go."

He took her hand and held it till, passing under a lamp, near a group of
persons on a flight of steps, he gently let it fall.  "Yes, it is the
wisest thing I can do.  The law is altogether different from what it was
when father was in his prime—the practice of it, I mean—and I don’t
believe I could ever build up here.  Oh, I might.  The fact is, I don’t
want to practice here.  I am disheartened.  The idea of a man, at his
age, turning against—do you know what he holds against me, Florence?"

"Howard, you must not ask me."

"Must not ask you?  Then you know."

"Please don’t ask me."

They were in the light, amid laughter and the humming of tunes, and he
waited till they reached a place where there was no one to hear, and
then he said: "If you know and love me, it would be unnatural not to
tell me."

"Howard, Peter may have denied his Lord, martyrs may have denied their
religion, but you can’t deny my love."

"No, I can’t; but how can you keep from me a secret that concerns me so
vitally?  Do you suppose I could hold back anything from you?"

"Not if your mother were dead and you had taken an oath upon her
memory?"

"Not if God were dead and I had sworn—"

"Howard, you must not talk that way."

He was holding her hand and he felt the ripples of her agitation.  "I
think I know your secret," he said.  "You have cause to believe that his
mind is giving way and you don’t want to distress me by confessing
it—have been sworn to silence, as if it could be kept hidden from me."

She admitted that she did not believe that his mind was sound, and he
accepted it as the secret which she had at first held back, but her
conscience arose against the deception of leaving him so completely in
the dark.  "Howard, you have often said in your joking way that I have
the honor of a man."

"Yes, the honor of the Roman famed for honor. But honor can be cool, and
I need something warmer, now—love.  I am, as you know, deeply distressed
at father’s condition; it has changed nearly all my plans—every plan, in
fact, except the one great plan—our plan.  Mother begs me to be patient.
But for what end, if there is to be no improvement in his treatment of
me?  I took a hint from Uncle William, not intended for me, that there
has been insanity in the family.  That’s a comforting thought, now,
isn’t it?  Why do you tremble so?"

"Because I believe that there is truth in Uncle William’s hint."

"But it should not have any effect upon our plans—our marriage."

"I would marry you, Howard, if you were a maniac."

They were in the dark, and he put his arm about her.  "Then, let the
whole world go insane," he said.

The soft air murmured among the leaves of the cottonwood.  A band of
happy children danced about an organ grinder in the street.  A
fraudulent newsboy cried a murder in Indiana Avenue, and from afar came
as if in echo, "All about the murder on Prairie Avenue."

"Howard, knowing me as you do, and supposing that I had not told all I
know, and I were to ask you to wait, what would you say?"

"Not knowing you so well I would say, ’out with it,’ but knowing you, I
would say, ’wait.’  But what do you mean?"

"I mean to wait four weeks and no longer."

"Now you begin to mystify me.  But we’ll not think about it.  I wonder
what’s the trouble with George.  I never saw a fellow change so.  I
believe that fellow Goyle is having a bad influence on him.  There is
something uncanny about that chap. Did you ever notice his eyes?  They
have a sort of a draw, like a nerve.  Have you noticed it?"

"I have noticed that I don’t like him.  He looks like a professional
spiritualist."

"I guess he is in one sense—in slate writing—guess he has most
everything put down on the slate."

"I don’t know what you mean."

"Has everything charged that he can.  He’s a fraud, no doubt."

"Agnes says so."

"Oh, well, what Agnes says couldn’t be taken as evidence.  She sees a
man and has a sort of flutter. If the flutter’s pleasant the man’s all
right; if it isn’t, he’s all wrong."

"But there might be intuition in a flutter," she said.

"Yes, or prejudice.  But George has always been a good judge of men.  He
has excellent business sense—has invested in lots and can make a fair
profit on them at any time he cares to sell.  Shall we turn back here?"

Agnes and the preacher sat in the drawing room, she flouncing about on a
sofa, and he dignified on a straight-back chair.  It is rather
remarkable that a preacher is more often attracted by a mischief-loving
girl than by a sedate maiden; and this may account for the truth that
ministers’ sons are sometimes so full of that quality known, impiously,
as the devil.  In the early days of the English church, when the meek
parson, not permitted to hope that he might one day chase a fox or drink
deep with the bishop, and who was forced to retire to the servants’ hall
when the ale and the cheese cakes came on, had cause in secret to offer
up thanks that not more than two of his sons were pirates on the high
seas.  And Bradley sat there watching a cotillion of mischief dancing in
the eyes of the girl.

"You have never been connected with any church, have you?"

"Once," she replied, with a graceful flounce. "But I danced out."

"Danced out, did you say?"

"Yes.  I got religion in the fall and lost it in the winter—by going to
a ball and dancing."

"Why," said the preacher, slowly, patting his knee, "that did not cause
you to lose it."

"Well, that’s what they said, anyway.  And I know I cried after I got
home because my religion was gone."

"It is a crime to teach such rubbish."

"Then you don’t think I lost it?"

"Surely not."

"Then I must have it yet," she cried, clapping her hands.

"Miss Agnes, your purity is of itself a religion."

"I don’t know about that.  I am wicked sometimes—I say hateful things."

"But there is no bitterness in your soul."

"I don’t know, but I think there is, sometimes. I know once I wished
that a woman was dead; but she was the meanest thing you ever saw.  And
she did die not long after that and I was scared nearly to death—and I
prayed and sent flowers to the funeral.  Wasn’t that wicked?"

The preacher admitted that it was wayward, but he could not find it in
his inflamed heart to call her wicked.  She was too engaging, too
handsome to be wicked.  Nature could not so defame herself, he thought,
though he knew that there was many a beautiful flower without perfume.
But while settled love condemns, love springing into life forgives.
"Wayward," said the preacher, "Perhaps thoughtless would be a better
word."

"No, it wasn’t thoughtless, because I was thinking hard all the time.
Don’t you get awfully tired studying up something to preach about?"

He smiled upon her.  "All work in time becomes laborious, and that is
why congregations desire young men—they want freshness.  An old man may
continue to be fresh, but his brain must be wonderful and his soul must
be a garden of flowers. The wisdom of the old man often offends the
young and tires the middle-aged; human nature demands entertainment, and
the preacher who entertains while he instructs is the one who makes the
most friends and the one who indeed does the most good.  The unpoetic
preacher is doomed; the gospel itself is a poem.  The practical man may
not read poetry, may not understand it; but he likes it in a sermon, for
it breathes the gentleness and the purity of Christ.  But poetry cannot
be laborious, cannot be dry with studied wisdom, and therefore, when a
preacher becomes a great scholar, he forgets his simple poetry and the
people begin to forget him."

"My!" exclaimed the girl, "what a sermon you have preached.  And it’s
true, too, I think.  I know we had an old man at our church—one of the
best old men you ever saw—but they got tired of him. He—he couldn’t hold
anybody.  Even the old men gaped and yawned.  He was giving them dry
creed.  Well, a young man came along and preached for us.  And it was
like spring time coming in the winter.  He made us laugh and cry. People
like to cry—it makes them laugh so much better afterward.  Well, the old
man had to go."

"And after a time, the young man, grown old, will have to go.  We must
keep this life fresh; we must look for incentives to freshness.  A
preacher ought to be the most genial of men.  And his wife ought to be
genial; indeed, innocent mischief would not ill become her."

He looked at her, but she did not look at him. She was leaning back with
her eyes half closed.  "I hear Mr. Howard and Agnes coming," she said.




                             *CHAPTER XIV.*

                        *A PROPOSITION TO MAKE.*


Two weeks passed, and during the time Howard busied himself with the
writing of letters to numerous real-estate men and postmasters in the
West. Sometimes he would put down his pen to muse over what Florence had
said, that she might tell him something after the lapse of four weeks,
and more than once had he spoken to her with regard to what seemed to
him as her vague information, but she had told him to wait.  He knew her
well enough not to persist.  One of his earliest memories was a certain
sort of stubbornness which formed a part of her character.  She was
gentle and lovable, but strong.  He fancied that had she been reared in
a different sphere of life she would have become a leader in the
Salvation Army.

Bodney came to the office every day, but was so restless that he rarely
remained long.  Once he came to the door, saw the preacher within, and
stole away without speaking.  And one afternoon Howard heard him and
Goyle tossing high words in the hall, but a few moments later they went
out, arm in arm.  One morning the Judge came in. "I didn’t know but you
had left this place," he said, standing near the door and looking about
to search for the old memories, Howard mused.

"No, sir.  The fact is I may not move to any other office in this town."

"In this town!" the old man repeated.  "What other town is there?"  To a
Chicago man that ought to have established his complete soundness of
mind.  "I can give you credit for all sorts of—let me say, weakness—but
I cannot see why you should be so foolish as to leave this city."

"You came at an early day," said Howard.  "I might better my prospects
by going to a town that is still in its early day."

"Um, and come back broke.  You haven’t stuffed that old suit of clothes
yet."

"There’s time enough for that, sir?"

"What!  Then you really intend to do it?"

"Didn’t you command me?"

"None of your banter."  The Judge walked over to the old iron safe, with
the names Elbridge & Bodney slowly rusting into the invisible past, put
his hand upon it and stood there with his head bowed.  From the street
came the sharp clang of a fireman’s gong, and the old man sprang back.

"There is a fire somewhere," said Howard.

"There is, sir; it is here," the Judge replied, putting his hand on his
breast.  Yes, it was now only too evident that his mind was diseased.
The young man went to him, took his hand, looked into his eyes.  "I beg
of you to believe that my love for you is as strong as ever.  I don’t
know how to humble myself, for you have taught me independence, but I
would get down on my knees to you if—"  The old man threw his hand from
him and hastened from the room.  In the hall he encountered the opium
eating doctor.  "Why, my dear Judge, I am surprised to see you out."

"And you will be still more surprised if you don’t get out of my way."

"But won’t you stop a while for old-time’s sake?"

"I will do nothing, sir, but attend to my own affairs, and I request you
to do the same."

"Of course, yes, of course.  Well, drop in when you are passing."

The old doctor stepped up to the door of Howard’s office.  The young man
stood confronting him.  "I have thought over what you said the other day
concerning your father, and have come to the conclusion that you are
right," said the doctor. "There is something wrong with him."

"But I wish you wouldn’t irritate him.  And, by the way, why did you
tell him that I told you to go out to the house?"

"Didn’t you request me to go?"

"I certainly did not."

"Well, really, I misunderstood you.  By the way, someone told me that
you intended to give up this office.  It is a better one than mine,
having the advantage of a better view, and I don’t know but I might take
it."

"I am not going to give it up yet a while."

Bodney came into the hall and the old doctor shuffled into his own den.
"I guess he wants to poison someone," said Bodney, nodding toward the
doctor’s office.  "Anybody with you?" he asked.

"No," Howard answered, as they both stepped into the office.  "Why?"

"Oh, I am getting so I don’t want to see anybody. I feel as if I were a
thousand years old," he added, dropping upon a chair.

"You don’t look well, that’s a fact.  What seems to be the trouble?"

"I don’t know.  Liver, perhaps.  Goyle been here today?"

"No, and I don’t want him to come again.  Now, look here, George, I
believe that fellow has a bad influence on you.  You are not the same
man since you became so intimate with him.  What’s his business?  What
does he do?"

"I’d rather not talk about him, Howard."

"Then his influence must be bad.  Turn him over to me the next—"

"No," Bodney quickly interposed.  "Let everything go along as it is till
the proper time and then—then I will attend to him.  I am not in a
position now to do anything, but one of these days I am going to tell
you something that will open your eyes to the perfidy of man—man close
to you. Don’t say anything more now; I am crushed.  I am—"

He leaned forward with his arms on a table and his head on his arms, his
eyes hidden from the light.  "Why, my dear boy," said Howard, going to
him, touching him gently, "don’t look at it that way.  It is not so bad
as that."

"It is worse," said Bodney, in a smothered voice. "It is worse than you
can possibly picture it.  And when I tell you, you will hate me as you
never hated a human being on the earth.  Don’t ask me now, for I can’t
tell you.  Just simply don’t pay any attention to me.  But I beg of you
not to say a word at home.  I have been led into hell, Howard, and there
is no way out."

"Oh, yes, there is, my boy.  There is the door through which you went
in.  Go out at it."

"I can’t.  You don’t know."

"Are you in financial trouble?  Has that fellow led you—"

"Worse than that, Howard.  But I can’t tell you now."

Once his long-delayed confession flowed to the very brim of utterance,
but he forced it back and sat in silence.  Howard went out and Bodney
was thankful to be alone with his own misery; but he was not to be long
alone—Goyle came in.

"Why, what’s the matter, old chap?  You seem to be in the dumps.  Come,
cheer up now.  You’ve got no cause to be so blue?  You don’t see those
fellows over yonder in the bank blue, do you?  I guess not.  And they
are the biggest sort of robbers.  I beat the horses today.  And here’s
thirty of what I owe you.  Oh, it’s coming around all right. You can’t
keep a squirrel on the ground, you know."

"That’s all right," replied Bodney, brightening as he took the bank
notes.  "Can’t keep a squirrel on the ground, but you can shoot him out
of a tree."

"But we haven’t been shot out of the tree yet. Things will begin to come
our way now, you see if they don’t.  I’ve got a proposition to submit to
you that will make us both rich—regular gold mine, with not a dull
moment in it—life from beginning to end.  I can’t, tell you now, but
hold yourself in readiness for it.  You can take that thirty and maybe
win a hundred at the Wexton.  In the meantime I’ll be perfecting my
plans.  We shall need four or five agents, but I can get them all right,
and if we don’t live in clover a bumble bee never did.  Now, don’t you
feel better?  Look at me."

"Yes, I feel better."

"And don’t you believe we’ll pull out all right? Hah?"  He put his hand
on Bodney’s shoulder and looked into his eyes.

"Yes, I do."

"Of course you do.  We have been living in the night, but the sun is
rising now.  Let’s go over to the Wexton and eat dinner."

"I ought to stay here till Howard comes back."

"Why, just to tell him you are going out?  If you go out he’ll know you
are gone, won’t he?"

"You go on and I will come pretty soon.  I said something to Howard just
now that I want to correct."

"All right," said Goyle.  "But come over as soon as you can."

When Howard returned he found Bodney idly drawing comic pictures on a
sheet of paper.  He looked at him in astonishment.  "Why, what has
happened?" Howard asked.

"My fit’s passed, that’s all.  I must have talked like a wild man."

"I rather think you did.  You alarmed me—said you were worse than
ruined.  What has occurred to change it all?"

Bodney laughed as he looked about, making ready to take his leave.  He
was beginning to be restless, for the fever was rising fast.  He turned
his eye inward to look for full hands and flushes.

"Nothing has occurred," said he.  "The fit of melancholy has simply
passed.  That’s all."  He was moving toward the door.

"Don’t be in a hurry," said Howard.  "There is something I want to talk
about."

"I haven’t time now," Bodney replied.  "I have thought of something that
must be attended to at once."

"Just a moment, George.  Hasn’t Goyle been here?"

"Goyle?  No, not today.  And, by the way," he added, turning toward
Howard, "I think I must have spoken rashly about him just now.  There is
nothing wrong in his make-up; he may appear queer, but he’s all right
when you come down to principle.  He thinks the world of you."

"I don’t want him to think anything of me."

Bodney did not stay to reply.  His fever was now so strong that it would
have taken two giants to hold him.  He fought his way through the crowd,
and, panting, rushed into the poker room. They greeted him with the
complimentary encouragement usually poured out upon the arrival of the
"sucker."  "He’ll make you look at your hole card."  "Cash my chips."
"None of us got any show now."  It was nearly dinner time when Bodney
sat down to the game, and when the meal was announced he was winner.
Goyle came in and sat beside him at the dinner table.  "The scheme I
spoke to you about is a sure road to fortune," he said, in a low tone.

"Bank robbery?" Bodney asked, smiling with the brightness of a winner.

"No, it’s not the robbery of the robbers.  It is less dangerous and more
profitable—almost legitimate."

"Almost!"

"Yes—but full of sauce."

"Don’t you think you’d better tell me what it is?"

"Not now.  I want to see you alone—tomorrow. In the meantime make up
your mind."

"How can I make up my mind to do something that hasn’t been proposed?"

"Make up your mind to agree to my plan no matter what it may be.  We are
going to ride in carriages."

"Or in a police van, which?" said Bodney, smiling.

Goyle put his hand on Bodney’s shoulder.  "I see you are in a hurry to
get back to the game. All right, but keep your mind on my proposition."

"A proposition that hasn’t been made," replied Bodney, getting up from
the table.  The game was re-forming, for the poker player does not
dawdle over a meal; he eats just as a pig does—as fast as he can.

It seemed that Bodney’s luck had come to stay. "You make your third man
every time," said a losing wretch whose rent was past due.  A kindlier
eye might have seen through him his ragged children, but the eye of the
winner looks at his stack—no poverty and no wretchedness softens its
glitter.

The offensive fellow was there, sitting to the left of Bodney, but he
was not offensive now; defeat had subdued him; and the Professor was
present, in the darkness of hard luck, and with his air of mystery.
"You either made your hand or you didn’t," he said to a man who had
drawn one card.

"You ought to know," the man replied, looking at him with a steady eye.
"You are a mind-reader."

"Yes, when there is a mind to read.  I will call you."  He did so and
lost his money.

"You knew what I had in my note," said Bodney.  "Don’t you remember,
when I met you on the corner?  You said it was written with a pencil.
Why couldn’t you tell what that man held—whether or not he had made his
flush?"

"Both science and psychology stop and grow dizzy when they come to
cards," the Professor replied.

Goyle came in and put his hand on Bodney’s shoulder.  "Slaughter ’em,"
he said.  "You’ve got everything coming your way."

"But I don’t know how long it will last," Bodney replied.

"Don’t scare away your luck with mistrust.  And above all, don’t forget
that I have a proposition to make.  Well, I’ll see you tomorrow."  He
went out, humming a tune.  Bodney looked round to see whether he was
gone, and seemed to be relieved upon seeing him pass out.  Now it was
time to quit, the slave thought.  He had not counted his chips, for that
was bad luck, but he must have won nearly sixty dollars.  Still the
cards kept coming, two pairs holding good, and to quit was an insult to
the goddess of good fortune.  He remembered hearing a gambler say,
speaking of an unlucky player: "He stays to lose, but not to win."  At
ten o’clock he felt that he had reached his limit, and counted his
chips—eighty-seven dollars.  "I’ll have to quit you," he said, shoving
back.  And now how bright and spirited the streets were.  He threw a
piece of silver upon the banner of the Salvationists.




                             *CHAPTER XV.*

                          *DID NOT TOUCH HER.*


As Howard was going out he met Bradley coming up the stairs.  "I have
caught you in time," said the preacher.  "I want you to go to dinner
with me—at a place off Van Buren Street, where they cater to the poor."

"It is rather a tough neighborhood for a dinner," Howard replied.
"Wouldn’t you rather go to a better place?"

"No, I would rather like to see how the unfortunate dine."

They went to a restaurant that opened into an alley.  The long room was
furnished with plain tables, without cloths, and not clean.  There was
sand on the floor, and on the whitewashed walls, together with
Scriptural texts, against one of which some brute had thrown a quid of
tobacco, were placards which read, "Lodging ten cents."  They took seats
at a table and a girl came up and put down a piece of paper, scrawled
upon with a pencil.  It was a bill of fare.  The price set opposite each
dish was five cents, and at the bottom it was announced that any order
included bread.  The place was gradually filling up with a mottled
crowd, negroes, a sprinkle of Chinamen, Greeks, Polish Jews, tramps—and
off in a corner sat an American Indian.  "The air is bad," said the
preacher.

"No worse than the bill of fare," Howard replied. "Let us get out.
Don’t you see how they are eyeing us?"

"Let us at least make a pretense of eating.  I like to watch these odd
pieces of driftwood."

"Washed from the wreck of humanity," said Howard.

The preacher looked at him with a sad smile. "Yes, and perhaps not all
of them are responsible for the wreck.  They couldn’t weather the
storm."

The crowd was noisy and profane.  The preacher spoke to a waitress, a
girl with a hard, unconcerned face.  "I thought that this place was
under the auspices of the gospel," said he.

She did not look at him as she replied: "I believe some sort of a church
duck did start it, but a feller named Smith runs it now."

"Then services are not held here."

She looked at him.  "What sort of services?"

"Church services."

"Well, I guess not.  These guys don’t want services—they want grub."

"I believe I will address them," the preacher said to Howard.

"On the subject of foreign missions?" Howard asked.

"A merited sarcasm," the minister replied.  "Let us go."

In the alley near the door a woman and a ruffian were quarreling.  The
woman held a piece of money in her hand and the ruffian was trying to
take it from her.  A policeman passed down the alley, but paid no
attention.  The ruffian demanded the money.  The woman refused.  He
knocked her down, took it from her hand and was walking off when Bradley
touched him on the shoulder.  "Give her back that money," he said.  The
man drew back his ponderous fist.  At that moment Howard ran up.  The
ruffian looked at him and let his arm fall.  Bradley called the
policeman.  He turned and came walking slowly back, swinging his club.
"What’s wanted?" he asked.  Bradley told him what had occurred.  "It’s a
lie!" exclaimed the woman, stepping forward.  "You never hit me, did
you, Jack?"

"Never touched her," said Jack, and a group about the door of the
restaurant roared with laughter.  "Move on," said the policeman, and
Howard and the preacher moved on, the crowd jeering them.

"What put it into your head to go there?" Howard asked.

"I thought it was my duty."

"A man’s duty lies mostly among his own people," said the young lawyer.

"No, among stricken humanity."

"A heroic idea, but fallacious.  The Lord takes care of His own.  These
people are evidently not His own.  Pardon my slang, but here is a
genuine gospel shop.  Let us go in."

At the door of a room forbiddingly neat to the class which it intended
to feed, they were met by a cool young woman and a ministerial man.  It
was a coffee house established to offset the influence of the saloon.
At the rear end of the room a young fellow played upon a wheezing
melodion.  Girls were serving coffee.  On the walls were pictures of the
Prodigal’s Return, Daniel in the Lion’s Den, Jacob before Pharaoh, The
Old Home, several cows, a horse with his head over a barred gate, and a
child lamenting over a broken doll.  Howard called attention to the fact
that the sandwiches were thin and that the coffee looked pale.  "It is
charity," said he, "and charity is pale.  Now, let me take you to the
enemy—the den against which these mild batters are directed."

They went to a saloon.  The place was ablaze with light.  The walls were
hung with paintings, some of them costly, some modest, others
representing figures as nude as Lorado’s nymphs.  On a side counter was
a roast of beef, weighing at least a hundred pounds.  "Look at that,"
said Howard. "Vice sets us a great roast—and for five cents, a glass of
beer, the vagabond may feast."

"The devil pandering to the drunkard and the glutton," replied the
preacher.

"But the devil is not pale; he is not niggardly—he is bountiful.  To
cope with him, Virtue must be more liberal—give more beef and better
coffee."

"Good," said the minister.  "I am going to preach a sermon on the Virtue
of Vice."

"Red beef versus pale coffee," Howard said, as they stepped out.  "And
now," he added, "let us get something to eat and then go home."

"Home," repeated the preacher.  "I have no home—I have lodgings.

"I know, and I mean that you must go home with me."

Bradley muttered a protest, but was delighted at the thought of seeing
Agnes again so soon. He had spent the afternoon at the Judge’s house,
had left to unite in marriage a servant girl and a hackman, and now
wanted an excuse to return, not that he needed one, for the Judge had
urged upon him the freedom of the house; but timid love must show cause,
or rather must apologize to appearances. And, though the cause now was
not strong, yet he argued that the fact of meeting Howard would make it
valid enough.  He felt that his secret was not known to the Judge, as if
that would have made any difference; and he was sure that the girl did
not more than suspect him.  He wanted her to suspect him, for there was
a sweetness in it, but he wanted it to be as yet only a suspicion.  He
did not acknowledge that he had quite made up his mind regarding her
fitness as a wife; and when a man thus reasons he is hopelessly
entangled. When a man decides that a woman is not fitted to be his wife
he may have arrived at reason but has stopped short of love.

They went to a place that makes a specialty of crabs and sat down in the
cool breath of an electric fan.  "Quite a difference in our bill of
fare," said Bradley, taking up a long card framed in brass edged wood.

"And quite as much difference in our company," Howard replied.

"The old saying, Howard: ’One half the world doesn’t know how the other
half lives.’"

"Doesn’t know how the other half dies," said Howard.

"You are sententious tonight.  I have led you into a place that has
sharpened your wits."

"But not into a place that sharpened my appetite. But it makes a meal
all the more enjoyable afterward. Do you find anything that hits your
fancy?"

During the meal the preacher talked of the vices of a great city.  A
truthful farmer could have told him that there are almost as many vices
in the country, and an observant moralist could have assured him that
the great mass of women parading the sidewalks at night were sent
thither by the rural reprobate, proprietor of a horse and buggy.

"Vice is in man," said Howard.

"Ah, but how are we to eradicate it?"

"By educating woman."

"I don’t know that I fully comprehend you."

"Were you ever in a place where women are shameless?"

"No," said the preacher.  "The only shameless women I ever met are those
who accost me in the street."

"And if," said Howard, "you were to go into a thousand such places you
would not meet a well-educated woman.  Some of them are bright; some
speak several languages, but I have yet to find one who speaks good
English.  But we are on a subject that is as old as the ocean.  It is,
however, always new to one in your profession, I suppose.  You preach
about it, and innocence wonders at your insight, but the young fellow
who reports your sermon laughs in his sleeve."

"But, my gracious, Howard, what must we do, ignore it all?"

"I give it up."

"You are young to take so gloomy a view."

"Oh, I don’t view it at all," said Howard.  "I shoulder my way through
it."

An elderly woman, handsomely dressed, came up and held out her hand to
the preacher, who arose, bowed over it and declared his pleasure at
meeting her.  Then he introduced her to Howard, a woman noted for her
work in the slums.  A part of her labor was to talk morality to the
girls in department stores, to make them pious and virtuous on three
dollars a week.  She kept a house of refuge which she visited once a
day, to talk to the women who had been gathered in from the streets and
the dens rented to vice by the rich.  Her register showed that within
the past ten years thousands of women had been reclaimed.  But the
register did not show how many had gone back to loud music and shame,
preferring the glare of infamy, tired out with the simmer of the
tea-kettle and the shadows of the kitchen.  The preacher had visited her
place and had complimented her upon the work she was doing.

"Oh, what has become of Margaret, the blonde girl?"

The matron shook her head.  "She became dissatisfied and left us."

"And the one called Fanny.  Where is she?"

"Oh, she was too pretty and went away."

"And Julia?"

"Didn’t you hear about her?  Well, well.  Why, the newspapers were full
of it.  She left us and shortly afterward married a rich man.  He took
her to his mansion and gave her everything that heart could wish, but it
did not suffice.  He returned home after an absence from the city to
find a drunken crowd in his house, and he turned her out.  I am so glad
to have met you again.  Good-bye."

Bradley began to talk of something foreign, to lead Howard’s mind away,
but the young man looked at him with a smile and said: "You see that a
palace is not even sufficient.’

"Her moral nature had not been trained," Bradley replied.

"It is not that, Mr. Bradley.  Her miserable little head had not been
trained.  Morality without intellectual force is a weakness waiting for
a temptation."

"Don’t say that, Howard; it is a monstrous thought.  Brain is not the
whole force of this life. There is something stronger than brain.  Love
is stronger."

"Yes, it overturns brain.  And I will not argue against it, though it
might be the cause of thousands of wretched feet on our thoroughfares
tonight.  It is a glory or a disgrace.  But we have been moralists long
enough.  Let us go home."




                             *CHAPTER XVI.*

                 *WITH AN EAR TURNED TOWARD THE DOOR.*


Mrs. Elbridge met Howard and the preacher in the hall.  She told them
that the girls had gone to a meeting of the Epworth League, a short
distance away.  They had gone to a religious gathering held in the
interest of the young, but the preacher felt a deadening sense of
disappointment. "They will be back soon," said Mrs. Elbridge, seeming to
divine the effect her information had made upon him.  Howard heard his
father and Uncle William talking in the office.  "We will wait for the
girls in here," he said, leading the way into the drawing room.  Mrs.
Elbridge went in to tell the Judge, and shortly afterward entered the
drawing room with him.  The old gentleman paid no attention to Howard,
but warmly shook hands with Bradley, as if he had not seen him only a
few hours before.

"Delighted to see you, Mr. Bradley."

Howard glanced at his mother and she read a communication in his eye.
It was that in the old man’s enthusiasm there was added evidence of
mental weakness.  The Latin may express delight at seeing one a dozen
times a day, but with an Anglo-Saxon more than one "delight" within
twenty-four hours is an extreme.

Bradley looked embarrassed.  He said that he was glad to see the Judge,
which was hardly true, as he was not prepared at that moment to be glad
or even pleased.  His heart had gone over to the Epworth League, not to
worship God, but one of God’s creatures, which, after all, is a
pardonable backsliding.  He remarked that he and Howard had encountered
quite an adventure, giving it in detail, but to avoid any moralizing,
having had enough of that for one evening, hastened to change the
subject, asking if Mr. William had become any nearer settled as to his
dates.  This brought a flow of good humor.  The Judge looked toward the
door.  "He has so far improved," said he, "as to admit that at times he
may possibly be wrong.  I asked him if it were possible to be right, and
then we had our battle to fight over again."  He offered the preacher a
cigar, but ignored his son.  The mother noticed it and sighed.  Howard
smiled at her sadly, and shook his head.  Bradley took the cigar
abstractedly and after holding it for a time, offered it to Howard, who
declined it.  The Judge glanced at him but said nothing.  William came
in. "John," said he, after speaking to Bradley, "I saw old Bodsford this
morning."

"Not old Bill Bodsford."

"Yes, sir, old Bill."

"I thought he died years ago."

"No, he has been out in Colorado.  I haven’t seen him since
seventy-eight."

"Are you sure?" the Judge asked, winking at Bradley.

"I ought to know.  I met him in St. Louis in seventy-eight—seventy-eight
or seventy-nine—in July, about the fifth."

"About the fifth.  How can a date be about the fifth?"

"I mean that it was either the fourth, fifth or sixth.  He told me then
that he was on his way to New Orleans, by boat.  It was during that
intensely hot weather when so many people were sun—but that was in
seventy-nine, wasn’t it?"

"I don’t remember," said the Judge, winking at Howard by mistake and
then frowning to undeceive him.

"Yes, I think it was."

"Seventy-nine," said the preacher, at a venture.

"Then I couldn’t have seen old Bill in seventy-eight. But I saw him
today—and he looks like a grizzly bear.  And he didn’t seem to be in
very good circumstances.  But the last time I saw him before that—"

"In seventy-nine," interrupted the Judge.

"Well, I’m not so sure about that, John.  Let me see.  I was in St. Paul
and went from there directly to St. Louis.  Yes.  Now, I haven’t been in
St. Paul but once since seventy-eight and that was year before last.
Went directly to St. Louis.  It must have been seventy-eight, John.
Yes, it was."

"Well, go ahead with your story," said the Judge.

"Oh, it’s no story.  I was simply telling you when I met old Bill the
last time."

"And is that all there is to it?"

"All!  Isn’t it enough?  I didn’t start to tell a story and you know it
well enough.  Look here, Howard," he added, turning upon the young
lawyer, "are you fixing to jump on me, too?"

"Not at all, Uncle Billy."

"Oh, Uncle Billy, is it?  Then I know you’ve got it in for me.  Mr.
Bradley, I studied for the ministry—not very hard, I admit—but I
studied, and I am sorry sometimes that I didn’t go so far as to put on
the cloth.  It would have at least protected me from ridicule."

Bradley smiled upon him in a lonesome sort of way, with his ear turned
toward the front door, listening for the coming of Agnes.  The family
joke, so eternally green for the Judge, was but dry grass to him.  His
soul was panting for the sweet waters of love, the babbling brook of a
girl’s delightful mischief.  But the mind can talk shop while the soul
is panting.  "You no doubt would have added strength to our profession,"
he said.  "I call it profession in want at the present moment of a
better term.  Why did you give up your intention?  Not want of faith, I
hope."

Mrs. Elbridge shook her head as if to imply that there could be no want
of faith in one connected with her family.  "Well, I don’t know," said
William.  "But the scheme, if I may so express it, struck me as being
not exactly useless, but, let us say, hopeless."

"Hopeless," echoed the preacher.

"Yes.  The warfare has been going on nearly two thousand years, and the
victory is not yet in sight."

"At what date did it begin?" the Judge asked.

William began to puff up.  "Now, look here, John, this is a serious
discussion.  Is it possible that there is nothing serious except in the
law, in the names of your old clients?  Do you keep everything serious
shut up in your safe?"

The Judge’s countenance changed, like the sudden turning down of a
light, and he made a distressful gesture.  "Don’t, William; don’t say
that."

"Why, what did I say to shock you so?"

The Judge got up and slowly walked back into his office.  William looked
at Mrs. Elbridge. "Rachel, did I say anything?"

"He isn’t well, William, and we never know what is going to displease
him.  But he means nothing by it, Mr. Bradley," she added.  "Sometimes
he begins to joke in its old way, but it has been long since we heard
his laugh in its old heartiness.  I wish you would talk to him, Mr.
Bradley.  I know he is not well, but he won’t permit a doctor to come
near him."

The preacher assured her that he would.  He did not believe that there
was any serious trouble; it was the strain of former years now claiming
its debt of his constitution.  "Nature does not forget," said he.  "But
nature may be humored.  I have noticed a change in him, but I am
inclined to think that he is gradually improving."

Howard was silent, though the minister looked at him at the conclusion
of his speech as if expecting some sort of reply.  "He doesn’t forget
about my dates, no matter how much of a change he has undergone," said
William.  "But, as to our discussion: I read some little in those days,
and my mind led me into bogs and swamps—into doubts, if I may say so.
It seemed to me that the whole plan was marked out and couldn’t be
changed.  I remember having come across this startling question: ’If man
can make his own destiny; if he can, by his own free will, arrest the
accomplishment of the general plan, what becomes of God?’  That struck
me, sir, like a knockout blow."

"And yet," said Howard, "you say that the French have a slop which they
call literature."

"What!  I said so?  Well, what if I did?"

"You have quoted Balzac."

"Have I?  But, sir, do you appoint yourself to preside over my
conscience?"

"I didn’t say anything about your conscience, Uncle Billy."

"Oh, no, but you Uncle Billy me into a broil, that’s what you do."

The preacher’s mind had caught the quotation, relating as it did to the
shop, and he smiled as he said: "I am afraid, Uncle William, that the
young man has read too much for us.  In an argument he is a porcupine
with sharp quills."

"A pig with the bristles of impudence," said William, and smiled an
apology to the mother.

"Nevertheless," remarked the preacher, returning to the subject, "I
don’t see how the eye of faith could have been dimmed by such a mote.
Conscience—"

"Meaning education," Howard interrupted.

The minister bowed to Howard, but continued to address himself to
William.  "Conscience ought to have pointed out the good you could do.
You could at least have gone to a foreign country—"

"Or off Van Buren Street," said Howard.

Bradley braced himself for a debate.  Alone with Howard he might have
said, "let it pass," but in the presence of a woman, a believer in his
faith, a preacher must not shun a controversy.  It would be an
acknowledgment of the strength of the doubt and of the weakness of
faith.  So he braced himself against the wall of creed, and with polemic
finger raised was about to proceed when he heard the front door open.

"The girls," said Mrs. Elbridge, glad enough to break in.

"So soon?" remarked Bradley, looking at his watch and meaning so late.
Florence and Agnes came in, laughing.  Bradley got up with a bow. "You
here?" said Agnes, and then corrected herself by saying that she was
pleased to see him there. "I never know how anything is going to sound,"
she continued, throwing her hat on a sofa.  "It’s all improvisation with
me.  I never saw as awkward a man in my life—" Bradley looked at her
with such a start that she hastened to exclaim: "Oh, not you, Mr.
Bradley—the young man who walked home with us.  I couldn’t for the life
of me get it out of my head that he wasn’t on stilts."  She sat down on
the sofa.  Bradley made bold to go over and sit down beside her, taking
up her hat, looking about for some place to put it and ending by holding
it on his knees, awkwardly pressing them together.  He felt that Howard
was laughing at him; he knew that Agnes was.  But she didn’t offer to
take the hat.  Florence, however, relieved him, and then everyone
laughed except William.  The preacher had been placed in an awkward
position, though anyone might have made a grace of it—anyone but a man
whom custom almost forces to adopt solemnity as a badge of office; and
William gave Howard credit for it all.  In certain humors he would have
charged the young man with a rainy day, a frost or a cold wind.  He
looked at him in his reproachful way and cleared his throat.

"What is it now, Uncle William?" Howard asked.

"Oh, don’t ask me.  You ought to know."

"But I don’t.  I haven’t said a word or done a thing that you should
give me the bad eye."

"Rachel," said the old man, "it seems to me that the more he reads the
more slang he uses.  The ’bad eye!’  That belongs to the police court."

"Then it is not a quotation from Balzac."

"Never you mind about quotations.  I have quoted before you were
born—and I knew, sir, from what source.  But I won’t stay to be
browbeaten.  I will leave you."

"By the way," Howard called after him, "if you want a pipe of good
tobacco step into my room. You’ll find a fresh can on the table."

"I don’t want any of your tobacco, sir; I don’t want anything you’ve
got."

Bradley might have thought that in this family the joke was overworked,
that is, had he been prepared to think anything.  But he was not.  His
mind was aglow from the light beside him, and his ideas, if at that
moment he had any, were as gold fishes in a globe, swimming round and
round.

Florence went to the piano.  Howard stood beside her.  Mrs. Elbridge
went out.  It was time, and she knew it.  William appeared at the door.
"I thought you said that your tobacco was on the table in your room.
What right have you got—what cause have I ever given you to deceive me
in that way?"

"You said you didn’t want any of my tobacco."

"You said it was on the table.  Of course I don’t want it—I wouldn’t
have it."

"You just wanted to see where it was."

"I don’t care anything about it, sir.  I want you to understand that as
you go along."

"All right, but the can of tobacco, I remember now, is in the closet on
the shelf."

William went away, and the young man knew that in the morning his
tobacco can would be empty.  Florence played the air of a slow, old love
song, and between the notes fell the soft words, her own and Howard’s;
they looked into each other’s eyes, eyes so familiar to both, eyes they
could no more remember first seeing than we can remember the first sky,
the first star—love as old as recollection and as young as the moment.

There is one thing we can always say, and Bradley said it: "I shall miss
you when you are gone."

"I’m not gone yet," Agnes replied.

"I hope you are not getting tired of us."

"Tired?"  She raised her eyes and he looked into them, into the depth of
their blue mystery.  "No, I am having lots of fun."

"Fun!  Is that all?"

"Isn’t that enough?  That’s all I want."

"But life is not all fun."

"No?"  She raised her eyes again.

"Life is serious," he said.  "The greatest joy is serious; the greatest
happiness comes to the heart when the heart is solemn."

"Oh, I don’t think so.  I cry when I’m serious."

"There is joy in a tear."

"Not in mine."

He did not hear the front door open.  For him all the world had come in.
He did not hear a step at the door.  Bodney came in.  Florence left off
playing and turned about on the stool.  Bradley arose and shook hands
with him, said that he was glad to meet him, and lied.  He would not at
that moment have been glad to see the glory promised to the faithful.
But he lied, as we all of us are compelled to lie, for to lie at times
is the necessary martyrdom of the conscience.  Bodney’s face was bright
and his laugh was gay.  "You are as merry as a serenade," said Florence.

"As happy as a lark," he replied.  The love-making was spoiled.  Bradley
said that it was time to take his leave.  Bodney followed him to the
door, and beneath the hall light handed him a bank note, apologizing for
not having sooner returned the loan of ten dollars.

"But you have given me twenty," said Bradley.

"Have I?  Then give the extra ten to the church."




                            *CHAPTER XVII.*

                        *LYING ON THE SIDEWALK.*


Bradley lived in Aldine Square.  By the light of the first gas lamp he
looked at his watch and found that it wanted but three minutes to
midnight.  At the corner of the street he waited for a cross-town car,
but as none was within sight, he walked on, thinking little of the
distance home, which was not great, for his mind was on Agnes.  He had
not decided that she would make a good wife, but he knew that he would
ask her to marry him.  He believed that his happiness depended upon her
decision.  This is a conclusion reached by nearly every man.  His salary
was not large, for his church was poor, but it was growing rich in
numbers and that meant a popularity insuring larger pay.  But why should
he consider his income?  They could live happily in Aldine Square.  It
was a charming place, and so romantic that one would scarcely expect to
find it in Chicago.  It might have been a part of Paris.  It was come
upon suddenly, its gate, with two great posts of stone, opening into the
street.  There was a plastered wall, and it looked as if it had been
built for ages.  Through the gate, which was always left open, the view
was attractive—there were trees, shrubbery, flowers, a pool, a fountain
and a carriage drive.  It would charm Agnes.

The street was deserted, with the exception of a straggler here and
there, turned out of a saloon. "Vice shutting its red eye," he mused, as
one place closed its door.  Looking ahead he saw a man leaning against a
lamp post.  As Bradley came up the man, stepping out, said: "Mister,
will you please tell me what time it is?"

Bradley halted and took out his watch, and, holding it so as to catch
the light, was about to tell him when the man snatched the watch, broke
the chain and fled down an alley.  The preacher shouted after him, ran a
short distance down the alley, but, realizing that pursuit was folly, if
not dangerous, returned to the street and continued his way homeward,
the piece of chain dangling from his pocket.  He thought of going to the
nearest station to report the robbery, but his mind flew back to Agnes.
How delicious it would be to have her all to himself, sitting by the
fountain in the summer air.  The perfume of the flowers would be
sweeter, the falling of the water more musical. They would read together
till the twilight came, read silly books, if she preferred them; and in
the twilight they would read a book in which God had written—the book of
their own hearts.  And in cold weather they would sit in the warm light,
at the window, and look out upon the little park, the shrubbery covered
with snow, the statuary of winter.  He would never seek to change the
current of her mind.  Nature had fashioned it a laughing rivulet and it
should never be a sighing wave. With her in the congregation he could be
more eloquent, touch more hearts through his love for her; he would be
more akin to the young, for her love would be as a stream of youth
constantly flowing into his life.  Nature might have shown her power in
the creation of man, but surely her glory in the creation of woman.  He
drew a contrast between Florence and Agnes.  Florence was stronger, and
had more dignity; but, of course, he believed that Agnes was more
affectionate, and love was more beautiful than strength.

He turned into the street leading to the Aldine gate.  And how quiet
everything was.  It was a love night, the leaves murmuring.  But, what
was that lying on the sidewalk in front of the gate?  A woman.  He stood
looking down at her.  Could she have been murdered.  The light was not
strong, but he could see that she was not ill dressed.  She was lying on
her right side.  He touched her shoulder and she turned upon her back
with a moan.  He leaned over her and caught the fumes of liquor.  But he
got down upon his knees, raised her head and spoke to her.

"What are you doing here, poor girl?" he said. The light falling upon
her face showed that she was young.  She moaned and mumbled something.
He asked her where she lived, but she could not tell him.

"I don’t know what to do with you," he said.

"Don’t leave me," she mumbled.

"I will be back in a moment," he said, placing her with her back against
the wall.  Then he ran to the fountain, wet his handkerchief, and
returning with it dripping, bathed her face.  It was hot and feverish.
The cold handkerchief appeared somewhat to revive her.

"Don’t you know where you live?"

"I can’t—don’t know the number."

"Nor the street?"

"Nothing."

Again he bathed her face, and taking his hat fanned her with it.  "How
did you come here?"

"They must have left me."

"Then you were with someone."

"Yes—three."

"Where had you been?"

"Wine room.  Don’t turn me over to the police. I won’t go there again."

"Can’t you remember now where you live?"

"It is a long ways from here—over on the West Side.  I won’t go there in
this fix.  I would rather die."

"Then I don’t know what to do."

"Don’t turn me over to the police," she moaned.

He stood with his hat in his hand, looking up and down the street.  From
the corner came the whack of the policeman’s club against a lamp post.
Not far away the fountain splashed its music.  "Can you walk?" he asked.

"I’ll try.  But where are you going to take me?"

"To my home."

"No," she cried piteously.  "I don’t want a woman to see me this way."

"No woman is there to see you.  Come on."

He led her along, supporting her with his arm. He did not look to see if
there were any windows lighted about the square; he did not think of
scandal; he thought of the poor thing heavy upon his arm, not as a
preacher, but as a man.  He carried her up the stone steps, unlocked the
door and went into the hall, into the red light falling from the lamp.
Up the stairs he led her, into a front room, striking a match as he
entered, lighted the gas and eased her down upon a chair.  She was
deathly pale.

"Let me lie down," she said.

He pointed to the bed, stepped out into another room and drew the
portières.  Then he lay down upon a sofa, not to think of what he had
done, but of Agnes.

He was awakened by the housekeeper’s tap upon the door.  "Come in," he
called, and as she entered he thought of the woman.  The housekeeper was
fat and full of scandal.  She walked straightway to the portières and
drew them aside to enter the room, and started back with a gasp of
surprise.

"My sister," said Bradley.  "She came on a late train, and is going out
early.  Don’t disturb her. She brought me bad news from home, and must
go on further to see my other brother.  She could not explain by
telegraph.  It involves the settling of an estate."

He was now standing beside the housekeeper and could see into the
adjoining room.  The girl, with a remnant of modesty, had drawn the
covering over her.

Two days later, Sunday, at the close of services, a woman came forward,
held out her hand to Bradley and said: "I want you to pray for me."

Her face was pale and there was true repentance in her eyes.  "You are
my sister," Bradley replied, and this time he did not believe that he
had told a falsehood.  She went out, with tears on her cheeks; and a
lady who had come up to compliment the preacher on his sermon, asked:

"Who is that girl?"

"I don’t know her name."

"She met me just as I was coming in," said the lady, "and was anxious as
to whether or not this was your church.  She was evidently not looking
for denominations."

She was not.  She was looking for something nearer God—a man.




                            *CHAPTER XVIII.*

                        *MADE HIS PROPOSITION.*


The farmers have a saying to illustrate restlessness: "Like a hen on a
hot griddle."  And Bodney thought of it the next day, as he sat about
the office waiting for the noon hour, for the game did not start before
then.  He tried to read, but the words were as the echo of a pot that
had been played.  He attempted to write, but called it a misdeal.  How
swift was life, viewed from the window, and yet how slow time was,
limping, halting, standing still, boulders between minutes and mountains
between hours.  Surely his watch was slow.  No, for a bell confirmed it
in its record of the forenoon’s slothfulness.  He thought of Goyle, and
wondered why he did not come to make his proposition, if it were so
important.  He went out to walk in the cool air blowing from the lake,
and the Wexton stairs arose before him.  He rang the bell, and, standing
there waiting for the grim face of the porter, reminded himself of an
old horse at a stable door.  Inside they were cleaning up, sweeping,
dusting, getting ready for another day and another night.  From off in a
bedroom came the snoring of a man who had gone to sleep, drunk and
broke; but the porter would bid him a pleasant good-morning and would
give him a drink from a bottle kept in ice all night.  Bodney sat down
at a window and took up a newspaper and glanced at the report of a
committee appointed to investigate gambling in Chicago.  Numerous
witnesses had been summoned, some of them connected with the poker
clubs; and in a vague way they admitted under oath that they might have
seen men playing cards for money, but could not recall exactly where.
"I am looking for a fool," said the Legislature. "What do you want with
him?" the Governor asked.  "I want to put him on an investigative
committee," the Legislature replied.  "For the city?" the Governor
inquired.  "Yes," answered the Legislature. "Then," said the Governor,
"take the first countryman you come to."

Men with borrowed money burning in their pockets began to arrive, and
each one was asked by an earlier comer if he wanted to play poker, and
though he had shouldered his way through the crowd to get there, fearing
that he might not find a vacant seat, he answered in a hesitating way,
"Well, I don’t know; haven’t got much time—might play a little while."
It was a part of the hypocrisy of the game, recognized by all and
practiced by all.

The noon meal was munched and the game began. Opposite Bodney sat a man
whose liquor lapped over from the previous day.  One eye was smaller
than the other, and on one cheek, red and flaming, was a white scar.  He
drew to everything, won from the start and was therefore offensive.
Bodney opened a pot on a pair of aces.  All passed but the man with the
white scar, who said that he would stay.  "You are a pretty good
fellow," he remarked to Bodney.  "I’ll help you along."  Bodney drew
three cards and caught his third ace.  The white scar drew two cards.
Bodney, to lead him on, bet a chip.

"Well," said the scar, "I had a pair of sixes and an ace here.  I’ll go
down now and see if I helped, and I won’t bet you unless I have.  Well,
I’ll have to raise you three dollars."

"Raise you three," said Bodney.

"You must have helped.  Still, we never know. Ain’t that so, Jim?"

Jim said that it was so, and the scar, as if pleased and reassured in
thus finding his view confirmed, raised Bodney.

It was wrong to take a drunken man’s money; it was robbery, but it was
poker, and Bodney raised him.

"Well, you play two pairs pretty hard, and I don’t believe you can beat
three sixes.  Raise you."  Then Bodney began to study.  "I’ll call you,"
he said.

"I drew to three little diamonds," said the fellow, "and caught a
flush."  He spread his hand. Bodney swore.  "I never played with a
drunken man that he didn’t beat me."

The fellow looked up at him as he raked in the pot.  "Have to do it.  My
pew rent’s due.  Ain’t that right, Jim?"

"That’s right," said Jim.

Bad ran into worse and rounded up in a heap of disaster.  At three
o’clock, just as the game was getting good, as someone remarked, Bodney
went out, feeling in his pockets.  This becomes a habit with the poker
fool.  He continues to search himself long after he has raked up the
lint from the bottom of his pockets.  In the street the air was stagnant
and the sunshine was a mockery.  At several places he tried to borrow
money, but failed; his former accommodater, the druggist, told him that
he had a note to meet and could not spare it. He was sorry, he said.
Bodney went out, muttering that he was a liar.  He went to the office
and found the door locked.  Howard was not there, and he could hide
himself, the peacock whose tail feathers had been pulled out.  But
before going into the office he thought of the old doctor across the
hall, and hesitated.  Perhaps he had money, and, having ruined his mind,
might be fool enough to lend it.  The doctor was pleased to see him.  He
was astonished to find Bodney so much interested in his affairs, and he
wondered if a spirit of reformation had come upon the youth of the land.
Bodney said that of late he had begun to hear much of the old man’s
skill as a physician.  The old man turned a whitish smile upon him and
listened like a gray rat, bristles resembling feelers sticking out on
his lip.  And after a time Bodney asked if he would be so kind as to
lend ten dollars till the following morning?  He was sorry, but could
not. That part of the mind which takes account of money is the last to
suffer from disease.

Bodney went into the office to wait for something, he did not know what.
He thought of Bradley, and wondered if he could find him.  Just then he
discovered the something he had been waiting for.  Goyle came in.

"Halloa, old man," said Goyle.  "I went up to the club just now to look
for you and they told me that you had gone down stairs."

"Down stairs broke," Bodney replied.

"That’s all right," said Goyle.

"It’s not all right.  I’m broke, I tell you; and a man that’s broke is
all wrong."

"He may think so.  I’m glad you are broke."  He put his hand on a table,
leaned forward, and gazed into Bodney’s eyes.

"Glad," said Bodney, blinking.

"Yes, glad.  It teaches you the need of money. You are forced to shove
back your chair, to give your place to a brute standing behind you.  You
see the deal go on.  You are frozen out, but no one cares.  That game is
life, the affairs of man epitomized; you put in your last chip, you
lose, and you have failed in business.  A fellow who hasn’t one-tenth
the education has succeeded.  He stacks up the chips that you have
bought, and for consolation he says that chips have no home.  Am I
right?"

"Yes, you are.  But I want to get back into the affairs of man.  Let me
have ten dollars."

"Two weeks from now I can give you ten thousand. Listen to me.  Wait a
moment."  He closed the door, came back, drew a chair in front of
Bodney, sat down and leaned forward.  "Now, I will submit my
proposition."

"I don’t know that I can entertain any proposition. I am in too
desperate a fix to go into any sort of an enterprise.  My blood is full
of fever. I’ve got this gambling mania on me and I’m tempted to cut my
throat.  One evening you took me to a supper that was not to cost
anything.  It has cost everything, all the money I had, my honor, my
future, my—"

"That’s rot, George.  I introduced you to a supper that gave you
experience—real knowledge of the world.  You have met men without their
dress-coats—you know man as he is and not as he says he is.  You were
blind and I opened your eyes to the fact that money is not the reward of
the honest and industrious.  It is the agent of hell, and must be won by
means of the devil.  You ought to have been a rich man.  If there’d been
any foresight you would have been.  And whose fault was it that the
opportunity slipped?  Not yours.  Now to my plan.  Look at me.  Child
stealing."

"What!" Bodney exclaimed.

"I have laid my wires.  We will steal children and gather in thousands
of dollars in reward for restoring them to their parents.  Hold on.
Look at me.  We will steal from the rich, for that is always legitimate.
We will have our agents stationed here and there—we will—"

"Infamous scoundrel, I could cut your throat. I wish to God I had."

"Sit down and listen to me."

"I won’t sit down.  I will stand and look you in the eye, you scoundrel.
Don’t put your hand on me.  Stand back, or I’ll knock you down."

Goyle sneered at him.  "You can’t hit me.  I am your master.  Now,
listen to me.  I am going over into Michigan to establish a—post, I’ll
call it.  And when I come back, you will join me.  I present a plan by
which you can get out of all your difficulties, and you turn on me.  Is
that the way to treat a benefactor?  I have settled upon our first
enterprise.  Every day a nurse and child are at a certain place in
Lincoln Park.  The father is dead and the mother is rich.  The child, I
have found from the nurse, is a boy.  I am engaged to marry her.  While
I am walking with her you steal—"

Bodney struck him in the mouth—struck him with all the force of disgrace
and despair.  He fell and the blood flowed from his mouth.  He did not
get up; he lay with his head back, and Bodney thought that he saw death
in his half-closed eyes. He touched him with his foot and spoke to him,
but he did not move.  Someone knocked at the door, and without a tremor
Bodney opened it, expecting to find Howard.  The old doctor stood in the
hall.  "I am sorry I refused to let you have the money," he said.  "And
now, if you assure me that—"

[Illustration: Bodney struck him in the mouth.]

"I am obliged to you," Bodney broke in, "but I do not need it.  I wanted
to gamble with it, but I have quit gambling.  I have overthrown the
evil. Here," he added, taking the old man’s arm and leading him into the
room.  "There it lies bleeding," he said, pointing.  "Perhaps it needs
your assistance.  I must bid you good day."  He walked out, leaving the
old man alone with Goyle.

"What are you smiling at?" asked an acquaintance who met him in the
street.

"Was I smiling?"

"Yes, like a four-time winner."

"I am at least a one-time winner," Bodney replied.  He stepped into a
drug store to get a cold drink, his friend’s place, he noticed after
entering. The druggist came forward and thus spoke to him: "I was sorry
after you went out that I didn’t let you have ten dollars.  I found that
I had more than enough to meet the note.  I can let you have it now."

Bodney shook his head.  "No, I thank you—I don’t care for it.  I have
quit borrowing."

"I hope you don’t feel offended."

"Not at all.  I am grateful to you for not lending it to me."

Late in the evening he went back to the office. No one was there, but
soon the negro janitor came in and pointed to a damp spot on the floor.
"I have washed up the blood where the man fainted and fell," he said.
"The doctor brought him to all right, and there’s a note on the table he
left for you."

Bodney opened the note and read: "I leave for Michigan, and will be back
within a few days. I don’t blame you as much as I do myself.  I
permitted you to break away from me, but you will come back and at last
be thankful.  Goyle."




                             *CHAPTER XIX.*

                           *THE GIRL AGAIN.*


Bodney’s "breaking away" from Goyle had taken place on the day following
the night when Bradley had been robbed of his watch, and two days before
the girl appeared in church to ask for prayers. On the Monday following,
about noon, she appeared again, this time at Bradley’s lodgings.  The
housekeeper answered her ring at the bell.  "Ah," she said, "come in.
You are Mr. Bradley’s sister, I believe.  I didn’t see you but a moment,
but I think I recognize you."

"Is Mr. Bradley here?" the girl asked.

"No, your brother has gone out.  I think you can find him over at Judge
Elbridge’s.  I don’t know exactly where it is, but some place on Indiana
Avenue.  Anyone can tell you.  I hope you haven’t any more bad news for
him."

The girl was shrewd and did not betray herself. "No," she said, and went
away.  Bradley was in the Judge’s drawing room with Agnes when a servant
came in to tell him that a young woman at the door wished to see him.

"Oh, a young woman," cried Agnes, pretending to pout.  "Some girl you
have been talking sweet to, I warrant."  He had risen to go out, but he
halted to lean over and say to her, "I have never talked sweet, as you
term it, to anyone—except—"

"This one," Agnes broke in.  "Oh, go on.  Don’t let me detain you."

"Probably someone connected with the church—"

"Of course, they always are.  Go on, please."

"I will tell you all about her when I come back."

"Oh, don’t mind me.  Here’s Florence.  She knows I don’t care.  Do
please go on."

Bradley went out, and not with a light heart, for his love had now
entered into the stew and fretful state.  The girl stood in the hall,
and in the dim light he did not recognize her till she spoke.  She
handed him a small package.

"What is this?" he asked.

"It is yours."

"My what?"

"Your watch."

It was some time before he could speak.  All ideas were as dust blown
about his mind.  "You don’t mean to say that—you couldn’t have taken
it—you—"

"Let me go where I can talk to you—outside."

He went out with her and together they walked along the street.  Looking
back, he saw Agnes at the window, and he waved his hand at her.  She
made a face at him, he thought.  "Now, what is it you have to say?"

"You know a man named Goyle?" she said.

"Yes, I have met him at the Judge’s house."

He waited for her to proceed.  "I was with him and two others the night
you found me.  They left me on the sidewalk because I could not go
further, I have been told.  Goyle went away alone and snatched your
watch."

"But, my gracious, how do you know?  Did he tell you?"

"For some time he has been coming to see me. He was the first man I ever
went with to—a place where I should not have gone.  I blush to own it,
but I was fascinated by him.  He asked me to marry him, and I consented.
The last time he came after that night was yesterday evening.  But you
had taught me to despise him.  I could not drive him away, however, so I
sat in the room with him. His mouth had been hurt—two of his teeth were
gone.  He said he had fallen off a car.  He said also that as soon as he
got a little better he was going to Michigan.  He took out his watch,
one that I had never seen him have before, and I noticed that it had a
broken chain.  Then I remembered seeing a broken chain hanging from your
pocket; and the next morning before I left your house I thought I heard
you tell someone that your watch had been snatched from you.  I asked
him to let me see the watch, and in it I found your name. I did not
return it to him—I jumped up and ran out.  He called after me, and tried
to catch me, but I slammed a door in his face and locked it. Then, my
mother, who never did like him, ordered him out of the house."

"What is your name?"

"Margaret Frayer."

"Then, Margaret Frayer, I am sorry you brought me the watch."

"Sorry?"

"I did not wish a reward for what I had done for you."

"Oh, that—the watch is not your reward.  You have saved a soul.  In my
heart I believe that I have found peace.  I went to sleep with a prayer
on my lips, and I awoke with such a joy in my heart that I was
frightened.  I called mother and she came running into the room, and
there must have been a spirit there, for before I said a word, and
before mother had seen me, for it was dark, she cried out that I was
saved.  She had always been worried over me; she feared that my soul was
lost.  And she put her arms about me and sobbed in her happiness.  That
is your reward, Mr. Bradley."

"Come back to the house with me," he said.

He led her into the drawing room and introduced her to Florence and
Agnes.  "I wish to present a young woman whom God has smiled upon," he
said, and they looked at him in astonishment.  He told them that he had
found her wandering and had led her home.  Florence took her hand.

"I may not be worthy, yet," said Margaret Frayer.  "You don’t know me
well enough to take my hand."

"I know that you must have suffered, and that is enough," Florence
replied.  The preacher looked at Agnes.  He wondered why she did not
come oftener to his church.  He wondered what she would say to the young
woman.

"You are my sister," said Agnes, as if inspired, and Bradley clasped his
hands and pressed them to his bosom.  His heart was full.

Margaret Frayer did not remain long.  "You may meet me again," she said.

"She is to become a member of my church," Bradley spoke up.

"My heart and my prayers will be with your church, Mr. Bradley," she
said; "I shall remember you and be grateful to you as long as I live,
but my soul tells me to go with the Salvation Army, among girls, and
persuade them to work in the street when they have the time.  It is not
goodness alone that saves us, Mr. Bradley; goodness may be selfish—it is
saving others that saves us.  You know how that is.  You have saved
others."

"You are right," he said.  "Go with the army; you can do more there."

"And, do you say so?" Florence cried.  "I thought you too orthodox for
that."

"Not too orthodox for the truth," he replied, bowing.

"Then," said Florence, "I think more of you than I did.  I thought it
was your ambition to build up a church, but I find that you have
forgotten your creed to save a woman.  I am coming oftener to hear you
preach."

During this time Margaret Frayer stood near the door, waiting, it
seemed, for an opportunity to go. The preacher looked at her, and mused
upon the change that had come over her face since he had first seen her,
only a short time, but a great change. The Salvation Army has a
countenance and a complexion peculiarly its own, serene and pale; and so
quick, it seems, is the transformation that the coarse-featured,
evil-eyed woman of today may, to-morrow, have a striking refinement.  "I
hope you will come frequently to my church," said Bradley, taking her
hand.

"Whenever I am selfish," she replied.

"You young ladies have done yourselves credit," said Bradley, when
Margaret Frayer had taken her leave.

"Why so?" said Agnes.  "Because we treated her kindly?  Did you take us
for heathens?"

"Oh, no, but women—women are so slow to forgive."

"Forgive?  Why, what has she done?  She simply wanted religion, and you
have helped her.  Oh, she might have done wrong, I don’t know.  But
women are more forgiving now that they have taken more of man’s
privileges.  They may become quite generous after a while."  With Agnes
it was innocence; with Florence it was knowledge. She divined the
history of the girl; and in giving her hand felt that it was to one who
had gone astray, who had suffered, and who had turned back. The Judge
came in, to the disappointment of the preacher, who feared that, soon to
be followed by William, the old jurist would begin anew to stir up the
old straw of family humor.  But William did not come, and the Judge was
in no mood for joking.  He had been brooding, and his brow was dark.
"Florence," he said, after exchanging a few words with Bradley, "I wish
you would walk out with me."  She said nothing, but went out and came
back with her hat.  They walked in the shade of the elms, and he
remarked upon different objects, but she said nothing.

"Why don’t you talk, Florence?"

"Because I haven’t anything to say."

"You mean that you have nothing to say to me."

"I mean that it is useless to say anything to you. Shall I say
something?  I will.  You are an unnatural father."

"No, I have an unnatural son."

"That is not true, Judge.  Anyone to see him, to hear him talk, to know
him, would feel that he could not commit such a crime.  Why, sometimes
when I am alone it almost exasperates me to think about it; and to
realize that I am in a conspiracy against him.  It is cruel, and at
times I fancy that I am almost as unnatural as you are."

"To be bound by an oath?  Is that unnatural? Is it unnatural to have
honor?  I told you in the first place to protect you; I bound you by
oath to protect her, his mother.  That is simple enough."

"But you don’t know how near I have come to the violation of that oath.
More than once I have had it in my heart to tell him—but I couldn’t,"
she broke off.  "I couldn’t.  But he is going away, and I will write it
to him, every detail of it; and I know that he will forgive me."

"You make me the criminal when I am the injured.  Let us go back."




                             *CHAPTER XX.*

                       *THE PREACHER CONFESSES.*


Bradley had argued with himself that at the proper time it would be
simple enough to tell the girl that he loved her, and no doubt he was
right, but the time did not come.  He sat beside her on the sofa, when
the Judge and Florence had quitted the room, and he looked into her
eyes, and the proper words arose like a graceful flight of birds, rich
in bright feathers, but they scattered and flew away.  He could have
delivered an oration upon beauty and love, and he did; but he feared to
surprise her by telling her that he loved her.  He did not dream that
she had discovered it coming before he felt it.  It was not possible for
so innocent a creature to know so much.  He was a large man, and large
men may have sentiment, but sometimes they lack sentimental nerve.

"You don’t believe now that I talked what you termed sweet to that poor
girl, do you?"

"Oh, I don’t know.  But I don’t see why she should look at you that way
even if you did—did lead her.  It must have looked nice, you going along
leading her.  What do you suppose people thought?"

"No one—one saw me lead her," Bradley stammered.

"Oh, then it was in the dark.  Led her in the dark."

"She didn’t mean that I really took her by the hand and led her.  I led
her spiritually."

"Is that all?  Where did you find her—spiritually?"

"Going—shall I say?"

"Why, of course."

"Going to the devil."

"Oh, and did she say so, or could you see for yourself?"

"I could see.  Agnes—Miss Agnes, if I were not afraid of lowering myself
in your esteem, I would tell you something."

"Don’t tell me anything dreadful," she cried, stopping her ears.  "I
know it must be something awful."

He waited for her to unstop her ears, which she did very soon, and then
he spoke, but on another subject.  She replied listlessly, leaning her
head on the back of the sofa.  He told her about his church and she
yawned.  He had been delighted to see her in the congregation, and she
yawned again. "I thought you were going to tell me about that woman,"
she said.

"But you stopped your ears."

"And don’t you know that when a woman stops her ears it’s the time when
she wants to hear?"

"I didn’t know that."

"You didn’t?  Then you needn’t tell me anything."

"Yes, I believe I ought to tell you—only you."

"Why only me?" she asked, her eyes half closed.

"I don’t know, but—"

"Then, why did you say only me?"

"Because I—I think more of you than of anyone else."

"Oh, if you think it’s your duty you’d better tell me."

He told her, and she sat up straight, looking at him; she got up and
walked slowly to the opposite side of the room, he gazing at her.  He
reproached himself for telling her.  She was young, lived apart from the
great crowd, and could not understand. He could not see her face, for
she stood with her back toward him, but displeasure has many
countenances, and he could see that his story had offended her.  Her
head was slightly bowed, and she was no doubt weeping; he heard her sob.
Then she had loved him, and her love was dying.  But he did not dare to
go to her, to the death of the love he had murdered.  Suddenly she
turned about. Her face was radiant, and she was laughing.  He stared at
her in amazement.

"It is exactly what you ought to have done," she said.

"And I am not lowered in your estimation?"

"For being a truer man than any man I have ever known?  Oh, no."

Yes, she had turned round, laughing, but there were tear stains on her
checks.  He did not know that she had passed through a struggle of doubt
to reach laughter.  Surely she was a strange creature, worthy of being
loved and capable of loving; but he did not tell her that he loved her.
The words were warm in his heart, but felt cool upon his lips, and he
did not utter them.  He talked in a round-about way, in an emotional
skirmish, he afterward said to himself, and then took his leave, as the
Judge and Florence had returned.  Just outside he met Bodney coming in.
"Oh, by the way, the very man I want to see, Mr. Bodney.  I want a talk
with you."

Bodney thought that the preacher was going to thank him again for the
money sent to the church, to tell him how much good it had done.  "I
will walk along with you," he said.

"This is a peculiar world," remarked the preacher, as they strode along,
side by side.

"You might almost say a damnable world," Bodney replied.

"No, not quite so bad as that."  They walked on in silence, Bodney
wondering what the preacher wanted to talk about, the preacher wondering
how he could best get at what he intended to say.  "You are well
acquainted with Mr. Goyle," said Bradley.

"Why do you speak of him?  Why didn’t you say I am well acquainted with
the devil?"

"I suppose I might as well.  Do you believe him desperate?"

"In his milder moods, yes; at other times he goes beyond that—he is
inhuman."

"Ah.  Do you believe that he would snatch a man’s watch?"

"He would snatch a woman’s child.  He is a beast.  But you have
something to tell me.  What is it?"

"I will, but as I do not wish to bring someone else into the glare of
scandal, you must keep it to yourself.  The other night, as I was going
home, a man standing under a lamppost asked me the time.  I took out my
watch and he snatched it and fled down an alley.  I didn’t notice his
face, or at least I could not see it very well, and I did not recognize
him, but I have recovered the watch and have been told that it was Goyle
who snatched it. And you do not suppose that there is any question as to
his being bold enough to do such a thing."

"Mr. Bradley, that man would do anything; he is a footpad or a sorcerer,
just as the humor takes him.  Now, I will tell you something.  He made
himself my master, so completely that at times I could not resist him.
But the other day he made me an infamous proposition and I struck him in
the mouth and knocked him senseless upon the floor.  Blood ran out of
his mouth, and it was black—black, I will swear.  I left him lying
there, and when I returned he was gone, but he had written a note to me,
a note in which there was not a word of reproach or resentment.  He said
he was going away and would see me upon his return.  That note
frightened me, and I have been scared ever since, dreading to meet him,
for I feel that he has some sort of reserve power to throw over me.  I
would go away, but the thought that he knows all my movements is
constantly haunting me.  You may smile at this and say that I ought to
be stronger, that it is superstition, and that we are not living in a
superstitious age, but I tell you that in his presence I feel a weakness
come over me to such a degree that when I am with him I have only one
strength—a passion for gambling.  I have let him ruin me, soul and body;
I—"

"I will pray for you," said Bradley.

"You might as well pray for rain, and nothing could be more foolish than
that."

"What, you doubt the spirit of God?"

"I believe in the spirit of the devil.  But this is jugglery.  If he had
left me a note full of resentment, or had even left no word at all, I
should have felt that I had conquered him; but, as it is, I know that I
am his slave."

"My dear young man," said the preacher, "you ascribe to him supernatural
powers; you have permitted him to take you back into the middle ages.
Such a thing is absurd, in this great, progressive city.  See," he
added, pointing at an electric car rushing by.  "There goes the
nineteenth century, and yonder," he broke off, waving his hand at a cart
shoved by an Italian, "is the sixteenth century. You have let the
Italian put you into his wretched cart.  Get out—get on the electric
car."

"Your illustration is all right, Mr. Bradley; but he has me in his cart
bound hand and foot.  But we have both said enough, and what we have
said is not to be repeated to others.  I’ll turn back here."

After knocking Goyle down, Bodney had fully determined to make a
confession to Howard and the Judge, but upon finding the note his will
resolved itself into fear and indecision.  He felt, however, that the
gambling germ was dead—"germ," he muttered to himself.  "Giant!" he
cried aloud.  It must be, though, that he would gradually gain strength,
and the time for the confession was surely not far off.  But he would
bring disgrace upon himself and be driven out of the house.  He could
not bear the thought of seeing hatred in the eye of the Judge. The old
man was unforgiving; had not forgiven his son, and would surely send
Bodney to the penitentiary.  "I can’t tell him yet," he mused.  "I must
wait for strength.  That scoundrel is thinking of me at this moment, and
I know it."  In the night he awoke with a feeling that Goyle was in the
room, and he sprang out of bed and lighted the gas. Thus it was for
three nights, and on the third morning came a letter from Goyle, not a
letter, but an envelope directed by his hand, and in it was a newspaper
cutting, set in the large type of the village press.  "Last night, at
Col. Radley’s, the guests were entertained in a most novel, not to say
startling, manner, by Prof. Goyle, of Chicago, who gave several feats of
mind-reading.  Miss Sarah Mayhew, daughter of our leading merchant,
stuck a pin in the door-facing as high as she could reach, while the
Professor was out of the room, and then hid the pin under the carpet.
The Professor was brought in blindfolded, amid the silence which the
Colonel had enjoined.  He took Miss Mayhew by the hand, fell into deep
thought for a few moments and then went straightway and took the pin
from under the carpet, and then, marvelous to relate, ran across the
room and leaping off the floor stuck the pin in the exact hole which it
had occupied at the hands of the handsome Miss Mayhew.  George Halbin,
one of our leading lawyers, said that the feat would have seemed
impossible to even a man with both eyes open.  The Professor will appear
at the opera house tomorrow night, and our citizens who appreciate a
good thing when they see it should turn out."

"What have you got there?" William asked, standing in Bodney’s door.

"Just a clipping from a newspaper telling of Goyle’s wonderful
mind-reading."

"Let me see it."

William read the paragraph and handed it back. "I don’t believe a word
of it," he said.  "Those fellows will write anything if they are paid
for it. It’s all a lie."

"It’s all true," said Bodney.

"What, have you turned spiritualist?  Is the whole family going to
pieces?  Howard has ruined himself with French books and John is so
snappish that no one can speak to him.  Is that the sort of home I’ve
found?  Give me that cigar sticking out of your packet.  You don’t need
it.  Thank you.  A man who believes the stuff you do don’t know whether
he’s smoking or not.  Is that John, roaring at Howard?  I want to tell
you that there’s something wrong here.  What do you keep holding that
thing for?  Why, you shake like a sifter at a sawmill. You are all going
crazy."




                             *CHAPTER XXI.*

                    *UP THE STAIRS AND DOWN AGAIN.*


When Bodney went into the hall he found the Judge walking up and down,
waiting for breakfast.  His brow was troubled and dark, for Howard had
just announced his determination to leave on the following day.  He had
acknowledged to himself that there was nothing left to hope for, and yet
he had continued to hope that it all might be, as Florence believed, a
vision, a nightmare, to be relieved by a sudden start.  He knew that it
was unreasonable thus to hope, but hope was born before reason, and will
exist after reason has died of old age.  As Bodney approached the old
man stood with his hand pressed against his forehead. Bodney’s heart
smote him, but his fear was stronger than his remorse.  The piece of
paper, still in his hand, seemed to burn his palm, as poker money had
burned in his pocket; and he felt that he was but a pin hidden under a
carpet and that Goyle could find him and thrust him back into obedience.
The Judge noticed the grip with which he held the slip of paper.  "What
have you there, George?" he asked.

"A—a—thing cut out of a newspaper."  He opened his hand and the Judge
looked at the slip of paper.

"But why did you grip it that way?"  He took the cutting, smoothed it
out, and, putting on his glasses, read it.  "Ah," he said, handing it
back, "that fellow.  I have seen him in my sleep—last night.  Tell him
not to come here again."

"It has been some time since he was here."

"Don’t apologize for him.  Tell him that he must not enter this house
again."

William came out and saw the Judge hand the cutting to Bodney.  "Is it
possible, John, that you believe in that nonsense, too?"

"I don’t believe in anything," said the Judge.

"That’s putting it rather strong," replied William. "That is to say,
that when I tell you I elected Governors and Senators, you don’t believe
it."  Bodney passed on, leaving the brothers walking up and down the
hall, shoulder to shoulder.

"Did I say that I didn’t believe you?  What difference does it make
anyway?"

"What difference does any man’s record make? If a man isn’t proud of his
record, what should he be proud of?  You are proud of your
decisions—they go to make up your record.  I elected Governors, and—"

"Why didn’t you elect yourself?"

"That’s a nice way to come back at a man—your own brother.  Haven’t you
heard me say that there is something higher than a desire for office?
Hah, haven’t you heard me say that?"

"Yes, there is something higher—the roof of the board of trade."

"John, that is an unfair thrust at my speculations. But, sir, at one
time I could have closed out for millions.  Do you understand, for
millions."

"Why didn’t you?"

"Now, just listen to that.  Reproaches me for not being a money grabber,
for not joining the robbers to crush the weaklings.  I have suffered a
good deal at your hands lately, but I didn’t expect that stab.  It
wounds me here."  He halted, and placed his hand on his breast.  But he
went in to breakfast and ate with the appetite of a man who, if wounded,
must have marvelously recovered; he joked with Agnes about the preacher;
he told her that it would be her duty to take care of his numerous
slippers, presented by women.  "And when you have a pound party at your
house I will contribute a—"

"Senator," said Howard.

"Oh, so you have broken out, have you?  I thought you were too deep in
the study of French literature to pay any attention to such trifles.
And you have got on a reddish necktie.  You’ll be an anarchist the first
thing you know."

"He is going away, William," said Mrs. Elbridge, and the Judge did not
look up.  The sadness of her voice stirred William to repentance. "Going
away?  I don’t see how we can get along without him.  He and I joke, but
we understand each other, don’t we, Howard?"

"Perfectly, Uncle William; and when I open my ranch out West, you may
look on it as your home."

"Thank you, my boy; but I don’t care to go out there again.  I was once
a power there, but the country is now overrun with a lesser breed, and I
am afraid that I might not get along with them.  I want men, such as
there used to be.  Man will soon be a thing of the past.  The scorcher
is running over him—and I want to say right here, that if one of those
fellows ever runs over me, he’ll get a bullet just about the size of
a—a—about the size of that."  He held up his thumb and measured off the
missile intended for the scorcher.  "You hear what I say.  Why, confound
’em, if they see a man, a real man, they bow their necks and make at
him, but if one of them ever runs into me, the coroner will have a job."

Howard and Bodney went down town together and opened the office, as
usual, for clients who did not come, and who, if they had come, would
have shaken their heads and gone away.

"Howard," said Bodney, "I told you that I was financially ruined."

"Yes, I remember, but afterward you said that everything was all right,
that your fit had passed. Has it come again?"

"It didn’t go away.  A sort of drunkenness made it appear so.  The fact
is, I am in need of ten dollars, to pay a man I owe.  He keeps harassing
me."

"I need every cent I’ve got, old man, but here’s ten."

Bodney took the bank note and went out.  The poker microbe was not so
easily to be exterminated. It had suggested to Bodney that the only way
to replace the money taken from the Judge’s safe was to play poker.
And, why not play?  He might win—he had won once, and what the cards had
done they would do again.  He remembered the courtesies that had been
shown him at the club, the congratulation of the man at the desk when he
won and the sympathy when he lost.  "Couldn’t make ’em stick, eh?  When
a man gets the hands beaten you do, he’s got to lose his money.  There’s
nothing to it.  But you’ll get ’em yet—you play as good game as any of
them."  A man of sense could see that it was a losing game from the
start, no matter how honestly conducted.  And Bodney, going to the club
before business put on its cheerful countenance, had seen them counting
the swallowings of the ever hungry box, the rake-off, the unsatisfied
maw.  A fairly active game would average for the house at least eight
dollars an hour, so that in the end every man must be a loser.  He knew
all this as the others knew it, but the microbe squirmed and made him
itch.

He walked toward the Wexton Club, not in a rush, for he was still
fighting.  Speculation urged him to play one more time, and to realize
during the game that it was the last.  The hunger for play was surely
dying; then, why kill it? why not let it die of its own accord?  Then
came the memory of nights of distress, the nervous sweat of anxiety in
the street, scanning faces, looking for money. He turned aside, went
into a hotel and sat down. Two men were talking of a defaulter.  "Yes,
sir," said one of them, "everybody had confidence in him—the firm
trusted him implicitly; but he embezzled and must go up for it."  He
mentioned the embezzler’s name, and Bodney recognized it as that of a
gentlemanly young fellow well known at the Wexton.  He had come under an
assumed name, but had thrown off this weak disguise, to indorse a check.
So the players, who gossip among themselves, knew his real name, but
addressed him as Jones.  Bodney continued to listen.  "I understand,"
said one of the men, "that the place where he went is a regular robbers’
den."  Bodney knew better than this; he knew that in the fairness, the
courtesy, the good nature of the place lay its greatest danger.  Men
swore, it was true; cursed their luck and called upon a neighbor to
testify to the fact that he had never seen such hands beaten; but for
the most part, the atmosphere was genial, the talk bright and with a
crispness rarely found in society.  He resented this misrepresentation,
and was even on the point of speaking when the men walked off.  Soon
afterward he went out, though not in the direction of the club; he
circled round and round, like a deer, charmed by a snake; but after a
time he saw the stairway, dusty and grim, rise before him.  In the hall
above, just as he was about to ring the bell, he thought of his short
resources, only one ten dollar note, and he took out the crumpled paper
and held it in his hand for a moment and looked at it, not to find the
ten dollars, but the newspaper cutting.  He started as if stung, stepped
back and stood with his hand resting on the balustrade.  The door opened
and a man came out.  Bodney spoke to him, and he halted.  It was the
offensive fellow with the white scar.

"How did you come out?"

The man opened both hands and raised them. He was not drunk now.  He was
sober and desperate.  "They have ruined me," he said; "ruined me, and I
don’t know what in the name of God to do.  I’ll never play again as long
as I live—I’d swear it on all the bibles in the world.  Are you going to
play?"

"I was thinking about it."

"I could have quit big winner.  Say, have you got enough to stake me?"
His eyes brightened, but the light went out when Bodney shook his head.
"I’ve got just ten dollars."

"Then you won’t last as long as a feather in hell."  He went down the
stairs, and Bodney continued to stand there, fighting against himself,
with the newspaper cutting still in his hand.  Suddenly, with his teeth
set and both hands clenched, he ran down the stairs.  At the door
opening out upon the street he met the master of the game.  "Won’t you
come back and eat with us?"

"No, I am in a hurry."

The master of the game was astonished.  The idea of a poker player being
in a hurry to get away from the game was almost new to him—and it was
new to Bodney.  But he hastened on, not daring to look back lest he
might find some new temptation beckoning him to return.  Passing beyond
the circle wherein the lodestone seemed to draw the hardest, he felt,
upon looking back, that he had escaped and was beyond pursuit.  It was
now eleven o’clock, and the victory must have been won at about ten
minutes to eleven.  He had cause to remember this afterward, on the
following day, when he believed that the cause of this sudden strength
had been revealed to him.

Howard was in the office when Bodney returned. "Well, did you pay your
persistent creditor?"

"There was none.  Here is your money; I don’t need it now."

"But you will, so you’d better keep it."

"That’s a fact, and I don’t know how soon."

"But you say there was none."

"None.  I’ll explain sometime, but I can’t now."

Howard did not pursue the subject further, for his mind was on his own
affairs.  He had settled upon taking his departure the next morning, and
now he looked about the old room with a feeling of sadness.  He had
consulted another physician who knew his father well, and had been
informed that the old man might improve rapidly in the absence of his
son.  This made the young man wince, but he had told the doctor that his
father seemed to have an especial antipathy to him.  "It is one of the
freaks peculiar to diseased minds to turn upon one who has been
nearest," said the physician. Howard had repeated this to his mother,
and frequently she remarked it as a discovery of her own.

That evening when the young men went home there was a great hub-hub in
the hall.  William had just come in, covered with dust and was blowing
like a hippopotamus.  "If I live, I’ll kill him; mind what I tell you."

"What’s the trouble?" Howard asked.  William had been knocked down by a
scorcher.




                            *CHAPTER XXII.*

                          *TOLD HIM GOOD-BYE.*


At the breakfast table the next morning the Judge paid no attention to
Howard, though he knew that his departure was to take place that day. He
had striven to be genial when Mrs. Elbridge was present, and for a time
had succeeded, but all effort was thrown off now.

Howard went to his room to make ready, and his mother went with him.
The Judge was walking up and down in his office as they passed his door.
Florence entered, and the Judge bowed to her.

"Are you going to tell Howard good-bye?" she asked.

"That’s easy enough," he answered.

"He will come in here to see you before he goes."

"How do you know?"

"I know because it is not possible for him to prove so unnatural as—"

The Judge raised his hand.  "Don’t say it, please."

She stood looking at him.  "Don’t you think you ought to tell him why
you have hardened your heart against him?"

"I shall tell him nothing."

"And is that the part of a true man?  Is it not almost inhuman to let
him suffer in ignorance?"

The Judge raised his hand and looked toward the door.  "I tell you, it
is to protect her.  Can’t you see?"

"It is well enough to protect her, but you ought to give him an
opportunity to defend himself."

"There is no defense.  Mind, your oath."

"Oh, I am sick of that," she said.  "Every time I say a word in his
behalf you remind me of a foolish vow.  Judge, I am weary of this
senseless and insane drama, seeing the others stumble about in the dark
while you and I stand in the light.  No, you do not stand in the light,
I alone am in the light of truth; and if I did not think that the trip
out West would be good for him.  I would not let him go; I would stop
him short with what you have told me and made me swear by the memory of
my mother not to repeat.  No wonder you put your hand to your head.  It
must ache.  But, there, I won’t reproach you."

He had sat down.  She went to him and put her hand on his shoulder.  He
looked up, and then looked down again.  "I believe something is going to
clear it all up one of these days," she said.  He got up and resumed his
walk.  Howard’s voice came down the hall: "Has the trunk gone yet?"

"I think he is coming," she said.

"Stay with me, Florence."

"No, you must face him, the injured, alone."

"I have not injured him; he has injured me."

She went out and the Judge stood there waiting for Howard.  He came in,
more serious now that everything had been made ready.  "I am about to
start for the West, sir," he said.  "I can’t stand it here any longer.
You frown at me, and when I beg you to tell me—"

"How long do you expect to be gone?" the Judge interrupted.

"Till the day when I am to marry almost in secret, or when you send for
me."

The Judge was walking up and down.  He turned and replied.  "I shall not
send for you."

"Do you still deny us the right to be married in a church?"

"You shall never marry her at all with my sanction, and if you marry her
without it, you marry out West or in there," he added, waving toward the
drawing room.  "There must be no guests."

"I should like to marry in my father’s house, but on the prairie or in
the woods will do as well; it makes no difference."  He looked hard at
his father, and, after a time, added: "I didn’t think that a man could
change so much—be so unnatural."

"None of that, sir!" the Judge exclaimed, turning upon him.  "It is not
for you to call me unnatural."

"Father, if I have committed a crime in your eye, why don’t you tell me
what it is?"

"In my eye!  You must have studied long to frame that speech."

"But why don’t you tell me?"

"Don’t mock me, sir."

Howard looked at him, as if trying to study out something in his
countenance, in his eye.  "May I ask you something?"

"Why should you desire my permission since you would pay no attention to
my refusal?  What is it that you wish to ask?"

"May I ask if there has ever been any insanity in our family?"

The Judge started.  "In our family—in my family there has been something
worse than insanity."

Howard slowly nodded his head as if admitting a sad fact.  "Yes, there
has been the death of affection—in your family."

"Ah," cried the Judge, "the shrouding of a hope."

"The murder of a jovial spirit," said Howard.

"Don’t shoot your poisonous arrows at me.  Go on, away.  Good-bye."  He
waved his hand.  Howard turned toward the door, but halted, faced about
and looked at the Judge with troubled tenderness. "Father, I don’t know
exactly where I am going, but out in the wilds somewhere to find a place
for me and mine.  I did not believe—couldn’t have foreseen such a moment
as this.  It seems to me that my father is gone."  He paused, and the
Judge stood with his face turned away.  "Shall I write to you?"

"No," said the Judge, without looking round.

Mrs. Elbridge came in and found them standing apart, the Judge still
with his back toward Howard. "Howard," she said, "the cab is waiting.
Judge, Howard is going away from us."

The old man turned slightly, looked at her, nodded his head, said "yes,"
and walked to the opposite side of the room.  Mrs. Elbridge touched her
forehead.  "You must bear with him," she whispered.  "You can see where
the trouble lies."

"Yes, and it is a sorrowful thought.  I can hardly believe it.  And to
think that he should select me as the object of his contempt."

"He will get over it soon and send for you," she said in a low voice.
"A disordered mind turns against the loved one—nearly always."  Then,
advancing toward the old man, she said: "Judge, tell him good-bye."

"I have," replied the old man, standing with his face turned from her.
She went to him and, touching his arm, said: "But not in your old
way—not as you would have told him good-bye before—before you were ill."

"I am not ill," he said, without turning his eyes toward her.  "I never
was better in my life."

"But, tell him good-bye, please."

"I tell you I have!" he exclaimed, stamping upon the floor; and turning
with his hand uplifted, he cried: "Can’t you see—no, you cannot," he
broke off, his hand shaking, and slowly falling to his side. "No, you
cannot see, must not see.  I beg your pardon for speaking so
impatiently, but I am worried, Rachel; worried, and—"

"Yes, I know," she said, taking the arm which he had raised from under
her gentle touch.  "But, you must tell him good-bye."

The Judge struggled against her, though not with violence; the struggle,
indeed, was more against himself.  She led him toward Howard, who stood
looking on, sorrowfully.

"Put your arm about him," she said to the Judge. "For me, please."

"For you," he said, and suffered her to put his arm on Howard’s
shoulder.  She raised his other arm, and now he stood with both arms
about the boy’s neck.

"Good-bye, father," said Howard.

For a moment the old man’s countenance was aglow with the light of love
and sympathy; convulsively he pressed Howard to his bosom—but a horror
seemed to seize him, the light of sympathy went out as if blown by a
cold wind, and, stepping back, he said:

"There.  Go.  Not another word.  Why do you continue to stand there
gazing at me?  Rachel, can’t you take him away?  I have told him
good-bye to please you—now, why don’t you oblige me by taking him away?"

"But, dear, have you no word for him?"

"Word, yes.  Good-bye."

"No word of advice?"

"Advice!  Don’t mock me.  Go away, please. Can’t you see—no, you cannot,
and why should I expect it?  Now go."

"We are going," she said.

"Yes, but—I beg your pardon—but why don’t you?"

She took Howard’s arm and walked out, looking back as if she hoped that
the Judge might repent and follow, but he did not; he resumed his walk
up and down the room.  Suddenly he turned. "Now, what are you doing,
William?"  The brother had entered and was turning over papers on the
desk.

"I am looking for a slip of paper I dropped out of my pocket-book."

"You didn’t leave anything here."

"That may be," said William, "but I don’t know whether I did or not till
I find out.  A man never knows—"

"Some men never know," the Judge broke in, going over to the desk and
taking a paper out of William’s hand.  "Go away, please."  William
stepped back, shocking himself from the storage battery of his dignity.
"Oh, I can go, if that’s what you want."

"That’s what I want."

"It is?  All right.  John, I’ll be hanged if I know what’s the matter
with you."  The Judge was paying no attention.  He was listening to a
cab driving off from the door.  "I say, sir, I’ll be hanged if I know
what’s the matter with you."

"I heard what you said."

"I don’t know whether you did or not.  There’s no living in the house
with you.  And last night, after I had been knocked down in the
street—and I’m going to kill him if detectives can find him—last night
when I merely intimated that something had taken place on the fourteenth
of September, you—"

"William, are you going to begin all that over again?"

"I don’t know what you mean by again.  John, you talk in riddles.  I
can’t for the life of me get at your meaning.  Yes, sir, and last night
you flew off like a jug handle when I told you that Carl Miller—"

"Oh, damn Carl Miller."

"That’s all right.  I don’t care how much you damn him.  He deserves
it—broke a pair of boots for me and made ’em so kidney footed that I
couldn’t walk in ’em.  But I am positive about that other date, John.
It was the tenth."

The Judge looked at him, drew a long breath, and said: "William, you are
an old fool."

"An old fool, John—old?  Did you say old?"

"That is what I said.  Old."

William sighed.  "Then, that settles it.  It isn’t so bad to be simply a
fool—for we may grow out of that as time goes on—but to be an old
fool—John, I’ll leave your house.  I can’t stand your abuse any longer.
I am without means, broke, you might say, and I don’t know which way to
turn, except to turn my back on your ill-treatment of me. I may starve
to death or be killed in the street or on some freight car, stealing a
ride from misery to misery, but I am going."

"William, sit down and behave yourself."

"Never again will I sit down in your house.  I have joked with you, I
know, and have said a great many things that I didn’t mean, but I am in
deadly earnest this time.  I am going away."

The Judge put his hand on William’s shoulder. "Look at me," he said.
"Don’t leave me.  I need you.  I am mean, and I know it, but I beg of
you not to leave me."

"Mean!" William cried.  "Who the deuce said you were mean?  Show the
villain to me.  Show him to me, I tell you."

"There, now, sit down; it is all right."

"No, sir, it is not all right, and it never will be till I find the
scoundrel that called you mean.  Was it Bradley?  Tell me, and I’ll
choke him till his eyes pop out.  Was it Bradley?"

The Judge smiled.  "Bradley," said he, "is one of my props.  He is the
son of my old friend, and I think the world of him."

"Well, let him congratulate himself on his escape, for before the Lord I
would choke him.  It is all right, yes, sir—but, really, John, if I tell
you earnestly it was on the tenth won’t you believe—"

"Yes, yes; let it be the tenth."

"Let it be!  Why, confound it, I tell you it was the tenth."

"All right.  When you go out I wish you would tell Florence to come
here."

William grunted.  "Oh, I can go out.  By the way, John, Howard asked me
a pertinent question this morning.  And it staggered me a little.  He
wanted to know whether there had ever been any insanity in our family."

The Judge showed signs of coming agitation, but he fought with himself
as it was his custom to fight. "What did you tell him?"

"I lied, I told him no.  John, do you remember the night when they came
from the mad-house and told us children that father was dead?"

"Don’t, William; don’t.  Please tell Florence to come here."

William went out and the Judge resumed his walk up and down the pathway
of trouble.  Yes, he did remember the night when they came from the
mad-house, two men in a doctor’s gig; he remembered the lamps on each
side of the vehicle, eyes of a great bug, they seemed.  But his father’s
malady had not come of inheritance, but of fever. But other men had
fever and did not go mad. Could it be that he himself had been touched
with the disease—touched in the eye with a vision?  No, for there was
Bodney.  He had seen it.  "My mind is sound, even in distress," he
mused.  "But wouldn’t it have been better if I had talked to him kindly
about his crime?  I ought to have let him know that I saw him.  No, his
mother would have drawn it out of him—love sucking poison from a wound."

Florence entered the room, advanced a few paces, halted, and stood,
looking at him.  "Well, you sent for me and I am here."

"Yes, sit down, please."

"No, I thank you."

The Judge looked at her sorrowfully.  "Did Howard tell you where he
intends to go?"

Florence looked at him with a smile, but in the smile he saw bitterness.
"Does it concern you?" she asked.

"I am not a brute, Florence."

"No," she said.  "A brute is not unnatural."

"Don’t, please.  I am trying not to be unnatural. There can be a broken
heart shielding a heart to keep it from breaking."

"You were a judge, a man of justice.  And was it just to let him suffer
in the dark?  Was it right to lock your own lips and put a seal on mine.
Judge, I ought to have told him in your presence."

"Don’t say that."

"But I do say it.  You presume upon what you are pleased to think is my
strength of character. I am beginning to believe that I was weak instead
of strong.  Yes, I ought to have told him in your presence.  I ought to
have said: ’Your father, who has been a judge, has passed sentence upon
you without giving you a hearing.  He says you are a thief.’"

"Hush," said the Judge, in a loud whisper, motioning toward the door.
"Don’t talk that way to me.  Ah, I have killed all the love you ever had
for me."

"You have choked it and it is gasping."

"I am grieved—but it cannot be undone—the fingers are stiffened about
your gasping love."  He walked up and down for a time, and then turned
again to her.  "When you get a letter from him will you let me read it?"

"No.  His heart will write to mine, and your eye would blur the words."

"Don’t say that.  I am not without a heart.  I had a heart—it is
broken."  He walked off again, but turned quickly.  "Florence, I
sometimes wonder if my eye could have deceived me—could have lied to
me."

She moved toward him, her hands uplifted, hope in her face.  "A man’s
mind lies to him, and why not his eyes?" the Judge continued.  Florence
caught him by the arm and looked appealingly at him.  "But your brother,
Florence—your brother. He saw him, too."

"What!" she cried, stepping back.  "Brother saw him!  You didn’t tell me
that."

"I promised him I would not tell you."

"Ah, you break your promises and expect me to keep mine.  I will go this
moment and tell his mother."

He caught her arm and poured out a distressful imploration, a prayer.
"I would rather you’d stab me," he said, concluding.  "I would rather
you’d kill us both.  But I didn’t swear, Florence.  You have taken an
oath."

"Judge, that is cowardly."

"Yes, it is.  I am a coward—but only for her.  A bitter word, Florence."

"Yes, forgive me.  I didn’t mean that.  You are not a coward, but you
are blind."  He held forth his hands.  She stepped back, shaking her
head.

"All gone," said he, "all respect, all confidence. And you were my
daughter."

"I was."

"In love and in duty," he said.

"In both," she replied.  "In both, yes, and now love is gasping and duty
has become a hard master."  Suddenly she sprang toward him.  "Brother
saw him!  I am just beginning to realize what you said.  I don’t believe
it.  His eyes lied, too."

"Oh, beautiful faith, it would move a mountain."

"It would pluck a mote from an eye.  May I go now?"

"I am not on the bench to discharge or restrain you.  But, just a
moment.  You feel that I am a tyrant.  That could not have been possible
with your former self.  What is so cold as frozen gentleness? And now it
is only through the frost-crusted windows that I can catch a glimpse of
your other spirit."

"In the hall, yesterday," she said, "I thought that I heard a lurking
echo of your old laughter."

He made a gesture of distress.  "Don’t remind me of it," he said.

"May I go?"

"Yes.  But let me ask you one more favor.  Don’t tell your brother that
I mentioned him."

"Another chain," she said.




                            *CHAPTER XXIII.*

                          *THE LIGHT BREAKS.*


The Judge turned and saw Bradley in the door. His appearance at any
moment was not in the nature of a surprise.  Agnes said that she
expected him at most unexpected times.  He no doubt regarded himself as
a brave man, and perhaps he was; it required courage to be so timidly
persistent.

"I hope I don’t intrude," said the preacher.

"Oh, not at all.  Come in."

"Miss Agnes is out for a walk, I understand," said Bradley, sitting
down.

The Judge stood looking at him absent-mindedly. "Ah, yes, I suppose so.
But I don’t know why I suppose so.  The truth is, I don’t know anything
about it.  I beg your pardon, Bradley.  I am—am greatly disturbed.  The
fact is, I hardly know what I am about.  I am a mystery unto myself.  I
was just thinking of it as you came in.  It does not seem possible for a
man, with a mountain of sorrow upon his heart, to turn squarely about
and speculate upon trivial things—to jest, if I may say so, and I must
for it is a fact.  I am glad you came."

"I am always delighted to come, Judge.  Here I find the shade of a palm
tree in a great desert of trade.  And I came in the hope of finding you
better."

"Better!"  The Judge looked at him almost sternly.  "Better, why I am
not sick.  What put that into your head, Bradley?"

"Why, I understood from what you have said that your health was not of
the best."

"But it is of the best, I assure you.  But I brood, yes, I brood, and
that is worse than ill-health—it is the ill health of the mind, the
soul."

"I am afraid you work too hard."

"Um, work, I hardly know what that is.  I am trying to rest, but it is
like a man seeking sleep on a bed of thorns.  Work is all right, for we
can put it aside, but worry rides us till we are down, and then sits on
our breast, waiting for us to get up."

William came in, shying a little upon seeing Bradley, but shook hands
with him.  "I am glad to see you looking so well, Mr. William," said the
preacher.

"Oh, I’m a pine knot.  Ain’t I, John?"

The Judge looked at him inquiringly.  "What did you say?"

"I said I was a pine knot."

"Did you?"

"Did I?  Didn’t I just say I did?"

"If you did, you did.  That’s all.  But who accused you of not being a
pine knot?"

Bradley chuckled, and William frowned at him; then, addressing himself
to the Judge, the old fellow said: "You did.  You disputed it.  You call
me a liar every time I open my mouth."

"William, you have often declared that you are not in the plot, but the
first thing you know you may break into it."

"No, I won’t!" William exclaimed, shaking his finger.  "And I won’t
break into your intellectual atmosphere, either."  He turned to Bradley.
"Why, sir, John is a regular professor, browbeating his class.  He
expects everybody to talk book. I say, damn a book.  I beg your pardon.
It is the first time I ever said that in the presence of a preacher."

Bradley laughed.  "It’s all right, Mr. William, if you feel that way."

"Is it?  Then, I say, damn a book.  What I want is action."

"I subscribe to your doctrine concerning much of our literary output,"
said the preacher.

William was so delighted at this that he seized the preacher’s hand and
shook it with more of vigor than he was wont to put forth.  "Good for
you, Bradley.  I am half inclined to come to hear you preach."

A twinkle in the Judge’s eye showed that again he was playing in the
midst of his sorrow.  "You’d never get there, William.  You could never
settle on the date."

"Oh, you be confound, John.  I have settled on more dates than you ever
saw."  He arose, went to the table and took up a pair of long shears.
"Let me take these to my room, will you?  I want to clip out something
for my scrap-book."

"Oh, I thought you damned a book.  No, sir, put those shears right down
where you found them. You took my mucilage off yesterday and I had to go
after it—down where you found them."

William put down the shears and looked angrily at the Judge.  "Oh, I can
put them down."

"Thank you."

"May I have a cigar, John?"

"Help yourself."

"Much obliged."  He went to the desk, took up a box of cigars and walked
out unnoticed by the Judge, who had turned his back, following a strand
of his sorrow, intertwined with a strand of humor, the two phases of
himself which he could not comprehend.  He walked slowly to the wall,
and, turning, remarked, as he walked toward the preacher, "Bradley, I
feel as one waiting for something—some shadow."

"I’m not a shadow," Agnes cried, skipping into the room.  Bradley arose
with a bow.  "No, for shadows may be dark," he replied.

"Did you hear that, Mr. Judge?  Did you hear him say that shadows may be
dark?  Of course, for if they were bright they wouldn’t be shadows.  May
I sit here?"  She sat on a corner of the long baize table swinging her
feet, as if the music in her soul impelled her to dance, Bradley mused.
"Why do you people stick in here all the time?" she went on.  "Oh, I
see," she added, lifting her hand with a piece of paper adhering to it.
"You glue yourselves in here."  She plucked off the paper, took out a
handkerchief, a dainty bit of lace, and wiped her hand.  "Have you just
got here, Mr. Bradley? What’s the news?  Who’s murdered on the West
Side?  They have murdered somebody every day since I came, first one
side and then the other, and it’s the West Side’s turn today.  Anybody
killed today?"

"I don’t know," Bradley replied, "but I hear that a prominent citizen
was sand-bagged last night—in front of a church."

"Oh, for pity sake.  And had he came out of a church fair?  Did the
robber get any money?"

"Bradley," said the Judge, "as William would say, she is putting it on
you."

Bradley smiled, and said that it seemed so. Bodney stepped into the
room, halted as if confused, and as Bradley got up to shake hands with
him, hurriedly went out.  Agnes spoke in an undertone to the preacher.
"Mr. Bodney is worried, too. And it makes me awfully sorry to see the
Judge so distressed at times.  Can’t you do something for him?"

"I can simply advise him not to worry, that’s all."

"Beg him not to be so sad.  I don’t see how he can be.  Everything is so
bright."

The Judge went to the desk to get a cigar.  "That rascal has taken every
one of my cigars.  Now, I’ve got to find him to recover my property."
He went out, and they heard him calling William.

"They have to watch Mr. William all the time," said Agnes.  "He carries
off everything he can get his hands on.  They say his room looks like a
junk shop."

Bradley nodded in acknowledgment, and after a short silence, full of
meditation, he said: "You seem still to enjoy your visit.  And I hope
you are not thinking of going home."

"Ah, ha, I am having a lovely time.  Isn’t it a nice place to visit.
They make you feel so much at home, snap at each other if they want to,
just as if you weren’t here.  That’s the way for people to do; make you
feel at home.  But they are just as good as they can be, and their
little spats are so full of fun to me, only it makes me sad to see the
Judge worry.  Yes, I am having a lovely time. I went to the vaudeville
yesterday, and tomorrow I am going to your church."

"Oh, you are?" Bradley laughed.

"Ah, ha.  Oh, do you know what I heard about you?  I heard you were seen
walking along the street with a drunken man."

"Yes, a friend of mine.  And if a preacher shouldn’t support a
staggering brother, who should?"

"Oh, how human.  I like you for that?"

"Do you?"

"Yes, I do."

"And for that alone?"

"Oh, no, I like you for that and for a good many other things.  I think
I could have lots of fun with you."

"Fun with me?"  The preacher was thinking of a summer evening in Aldine
Square, the music of the fountain, the sweetness of the flowers.

"Ah, ha.  There’s something about you that makes me feel like a little
girl.  And I dreamed that you took me by the hand and led me along."

"Agnes, let me lead you."

She slid off the corner of the table and stood with her hands flat
together, like a delighted child, but suddenly she looked up with
seriousness in her eyes. "But now you make me feel like a woman."

The Judge came in.  Bradley spoke almost in a whisper.  "But a woman
might be led by a man."  And then to the Judge he remarked, striving to
hide his annoyance at the interruption: "I see you have recovered your
property."

The Judge sat down on a chair near the table. "Yes, some of it.  William
is a good grabber, but he gives up after an argument, and there is some
virtue in that."

"What was in the paper that worried Mr. Bodney so?" Agnes asked,
speaking to the Judge.

"I don’t know.  Has anything worried him?"

"Yes, I saw him grabbing the paper as if he would tear it to pieces."

"Ball game, probably," said the Judge, and then looking at Agnes he
added: "Nothing seems to bother you, little one."

"No, sir.  I won’t let it.  When I am worried something jumps this way,"
she said, making an upward motion with her hands, indicating the sudden
rise of spirits, "and the bother is gone."

The Judge spoke to Bradley.  "The heart of youth jumps up and says boo
to a trouble and frightens it away."

"Ah," replied Bradley, "and couldn’t an older heart learn to boo a
trouble away?"

The Judge shook his head.  "The old heart crouches, but cannot jump."

"Make it jump," Agnes cried.  "Let me hear you laugh as you used to."

"The saints laugh with an old man," said Bradley.

"Don’t," the Judge interposed, with a slow gesture. "Your roses are
pretty, but you bring them to a funeral.  No, I don’t mean that.  I mean
that I am simply worried over a little matter, but I am getting better
and will be all right pretty soon.  I shall be my old self in a very
short time."  Bodney entered, and stood looking fixedly at the Judge.
"What is it, George?"

Bodney nodded to Bradley and Agnes.  "I beg your pardon, but I must see
the Judge alone."

Bradley asked Agnes if she would accept of banishment with him.  "Yes,"
she said.  "Come on."

"It is not necessary," the Judge spoke up.  "We can—"

"I beg your pardon," Bodney broke in, "but it is necessary."

"Of course it is," Agnes declared.  "As Mr. William would say, we are
not in the plot."

"No," said Bodney, bowing to her.

As they were going out, the Judge called to the preacher.  "Don’t go
away without seeing me again, Bradley.  I want you to spend the day with
me."

Bodney leaned against the table, stepped off, came back, and stood
looking down upon the Judge.  The old man glanced up.  "Well?"

It was some time before Bodney could speak.  His words seemed dry in his
mouth.  At last he began: "I carried half of a heavy load.  Something
has thrown the other half on me, and I can’t stand up under
it—dispatch—railroad wreck—"

The Judge jumped out of his chair.  "What!"

Bodney continued.  "Yes.  Goyle is dead."

"Oh, Goyle.  I was afraid—where?"

"In Michigan, at fifteen minutes to eleven, yesterday. I have cause to
note the time.  The load—"

"Well, go ahead.  But let me tell you now, George, you have no cause to
regret the broken association.  I deplore the man’s death, of course,
but I begun to feel that his influence upon you was bad.  I had begun to
dream about him, and to fear that he had a strange influence upon me.
But go ahead."

"Half of it was crushing me, and I can’t stand it all.  I—"

"Why, what’s the matter?  What are you trying to tell.  Go ahead."

"Judge, Goyle robbed the safe—Goyle and I—wait—I gave him the
combination—he made up for Howard—I—"

The Judge seized the shears and raised them high above his head, his
eyes fixed on Bodney’s breast. Bodney did not flinch.  The old man
raised his eyes, to meet a steady gaze; and he stood with the shears
high in his hand.  He had uttered no outcry, no sound came from him, no
sound that could have been heard beyond the door—only a low groan, like
the moan of a fever-stricken man, turning over in his sleep.

[Illustration: The Judge seized the shears and raised them high above
his head.]

"Kill me, Judge, I deserve it."

The shears fell from the old man’s hand, and he dropped upon the chair,
his arms upon the table and his face upon them.

"I wish you had struck me."

With a slight motion of the hand the Judge waved him off.  Bodney
continued: "For your heart there is a cure.  There is none for mine.  I
was a fool, I was caught, I gambled, I couldn’t quit, that snake held
me, charmed me, hypnotized me.  I knocked him down and he bled black on
the floor, and I left him lying there, but I could not break loose from
him."

The Judge waved him off.  "Don’t tempt me to look upon your face again."

Bodney did not move.  "The old laugh that they have spoken so much about
may return; old confidences and an old love will be restored, but there
must be a wanderer that can never come back, a fool whom nature made
weak.  But I feel that if you would give me your hand—I am not deserving
of it—but I feel that if I could once more touch that honorable hand, I
could go forth an honest man.  I would try."

The Judge slowly raised his head.  Tears were in his eyes.  He held
forth his hand.  Bodney grasped it, and—was gone.




                            *CHAPTER XXIV.*

                           *SENT A MESSAGE.*


William went to the office door and found it locked.  This was so
singular a happening that the old fellow stalked about the house,
marveling over it and complaining against an innovation that shut a man
out of an apartment that had served so long as a sort of public domain.
It was like the closing of a park or a county road.  Everyone laughed at
him and he snorted.  In the vocabulary of William’s contempt, the snort
was the strongest expression.  "It is all right to laugh," said he, "but
I want to tell you that there has got to be a change here."  He returned
to the office door and knocked upon it, but his knuckles aroused no heed
within. He could hear the Judge walking up and down. Bodney had been
gone nearly half an hour.  But the Judge had not noted the time.  To
him, life was but a conflicting, mental eternity, and he was in the
whirling midst of it.  For a long time he sat with his head on the
table, one arm stretched out before him, the other hanging limp; then he
staggered about the room, and then sat down with his head in his hands.
To the eye turned inward all was black, till gradually a light appeared,
seeming softly to shine upon a hideous shape, crouching in a dark
corner.  He gazed upon it, and it spoke, shrinking further back from the
soft light.  "I am your injustice," it said.  He got up, raised a
window, and stood looking out upon the sunlight in the street.  But he
shivered as if with cold, and his lips moved as if he were talking and
swallowing his words down into deep silence.  A gladness began to form
in his heart.  His son was innocent, but in that innocence there was a
reproach.  He had been unnatural as a father, and might he not many a
time have been unjust as a judge?  He acknowledged to himself that he
must have decided in favor of error while on the bench.  His retirement
was a sort of unconscious justice.  He realized that his mind had not
been sound.  He had felt a coming weakness.  But now he felt a coming
strength.  The trial through which he had passed must have served as a
test.  It was to restore or ruin his mental life.  But why should there
have been such a test, and why should the innocent have suffered?  It
would not do to reason, and he banished the test idea, fighting it off.
Still, he acknowledged that his mind had sickened and that now it was
gaining strength.  He remembered his frivolity and loathed it, his jokes
with William at a time when his heart was heavy and swollen. "Unnatural
as a father and inconsistent as a man," he muttered.  "But who is to
judge of man’s naturalness?  One kink in the mind and the entire world
is changed."  William knocked again, and now the Judge opened the door.
The old fellow looked at his brother and exclaimed:

"Why, what has happened, John?"

"Nothing, except that I have been really ill.  But I am almost
recovered.  My mind has passed through a sort of crisis, William.  I can
now look back and see that I was not right.  My present strength tells
me of my former weakness.  I am soon to be entirely well."

"Well, I am glad to hear that.  It is particularly gratifying to me.
And I suppose that you are, or, at least, soon will be, willing to
concede that I am sometimes correct with regards to my dates."

"Yes, but we won’t mention that.  It is of no importance."

"What!  No importance?  Take care, John, you’ll get back where you were,
for when a man says that a date is of no importance, he’s in danger."

"William, I want you to do me a favor.  I am almost afraid to trust
myself to go out just now. Wait a moment."  He went to his desk, found a
telegraph blank, and upon it wrote the following message: "The light has
broken.  Come back at once."  William read the words and looked at him.
"Go to the station," said the Judge, "and send this to Howard, in care
of the conductor.  It is not a secret, mind you, but don’t stay to show
it.  They would delay you with puzzling over it."

"All right, I’ll jump into a cab and go right over. I know the station.
It’s only a few blocks from here.  He didn’t go all the way down town.
I heard him tell his mother.  By the way," William added, "I found one
of Howard’s French books—"

"Put it back where you found it."

"What, you haven’t flopped, have you?"

"I don’t know what you mean."

"Why, you said that French literature was the—"

"It is the civilizing force of the modern world. Go on, please.  Just a
moment.  Tell Florence that I wish to see her."

When Florence came in her face was radiant. William had spread the news
of Howard’s recall. "Ah," said the Judge, "you know that I have sent for
him."

"Yes, father," she replied, going up to him with outstretched hands.  He
took her in his arms and kissed her.  "What has happened?" she asked.

"The atmosphere is cleared, my dear."

"But, what cleared it?"

"The truth.  You were right.  I saw a vision."

She looked at him.  "But what was it that brother saw?"

"Ah," said the old man, shaking his head, "you are shrewd.  You are not
willing to let it pass. Florence, we both saw Goyle disguised with his
devilish art as Howard."

She gazed at him.  "Is that all?"

"All?  Is not that enough for us to know, my child?"

"But, why did brother happen to lead you into the office just at that
time?"

"There, I have told enough, and what I have told you must not repeat.
If there is anything to come, Howard may tell you, but my wife must
never know that I have been so weak and unnatural a father."

"But she can see that something must have occurred to change your
bearing toward Howard. Mr. William has told her that you have sent for
him, and she is in her room with tears of joy in her eyes."

"Florence, I am striving to be calm, the master of myself.  I don’t
deserve to be happy—not yet. How could I have been so blind?  And how at
times could I have indulged in levity with such a sorrow upon my heart?"

"It was the truth, father, striving to break through."

He nodded his head.  "Yes, and now we must tell her something.  Ah, tell
her that a man came and brought me word that my brother is not dead.
Keep her from coming to me with any sort of demonstration.  I can’t
stand it.  I must recall my old self and become gradually accustomed to
it. I must realize that it was all a dream and that it is passing away.
Tomorrow, with Howard, we may make a joke of it."

"It will never be a joke with me."

"No, my child, I did not mean that.  It was a nightmare—a breath-shape
breathed upon us by the devil while we slept.  But we are awake now, and
God’s sun shines.  Go to her and tell her that my brother is not dead."

"I will.  But, father, do you realize how resourceful you have made
me—how replete with falsehood? And must I not go into the closet and
pray for forgiveness?"

"It was done for love, my dear; and love, which is the soul of all up
yonder, has forgiven already."

Florence and Mrs. Elbridge entered the drawing room.  "Who brought that
news that his brother was not dead?" Mrs. Elbridge asked.

"A man.  He was in a great hurry to catch a train and could not stop
long.  He brought direct word from Mr. Henry himself."

"Then there can be no doubt about it."

"No.  And I did not believe it in the first place."

"Who is in there with him?"

"I think Agnes and the preacher have just gone in."

"This is a happy day," said Mrs. Elbridge, looking toward the door.

"A day when falsehood may be told, but when truth is revealed," Florence
replied.  "It is one of God’s days."

"All days are His, my dear."

Florence slowly shook her head.  "No, not all."

The Judge came in.  He put his arms about Mrs. Elbridge.  "Rachel," he
said, "you shall never see my face gloomy again.  I will go laughing
down into green old age, into the very moss of time."  He motioned
toward the office.  "In there is a beautiful picture of sweet distress."

Mrs. Elbridge looked upon him with a trembling lip.  "But, my dear, it
is not more beautiful than the fact that you sent for your son and that
you yourself have come back to us all."

The Judge smiled.  Florence could see that he was growing stronger, that
his mind was clearing. "He returns like a lost child suddenly finding
the path home," she said.

"Faith has its wisdom and its reward," replied the Judge, looking at
her.  "In the days of the New Testament, you would have been one of the
followers.  You would have wiped His feet with your hair."  And, looking
at his watch, he added: "I wonder why William doesn’t come back."

"It is not time," Mrs. Elbridge replied, glancing at the clock.

"The minutes are hours, but clearing and strengthening hours," said the
Judge.  He turned about and began to walk up and down the room, with all
the simpleness of his nature in his face.  He did not look like a man
who had sat in judgment upon the actions of men.  His heart had cried
for pardon, and a belief that it had come lighted his countenance.  A
man who has been shrewd in the affairs of the world, sharp in practice,
suspicious, sometimes becomes simple and trustful in the love of a
grandchild.  And at this time, the Judge might have reminded one of such
a man.

Mrs. Elbridge stood in the door looking down the hall.  The Judge halted
to speak to Florence. "Forgiveness," said he, "is the essence of all
that is noble in life.  And do you forgive me?"

"Yes," she said.  "And I hope that I shall be forgiven all the
falsehoods I have been forced to tell."

"They were for her, Florence, and there is a virtue in an untruth that
shields a heart."  He moved closer to her and added: "I wonder at your
strength and marvel at my weakness."

"You were groping in the dark.  It was not your fault, but your nature."

"And you are my daughter again."

"Yes," said Florence, "in love and in duty."

Mrs. Elbridge went out.  The Judge and Florence sat down to wait for
William.  He was a sort of way-station which must be reached before they
could arrive at Howard.  The Judge told her of the darkness through
which he had passed, throwing new light upon it, as if she had not seen
it, as she stood by, holding a torch.  He spoke of Goyle, of his strange
power; he told her of the newspaper cutting that gave account of his
mind-reading, and finally he told her of Bodney’s confession.  She was
prepared, and showed no agitation.  But there was grief on her face.
Then he told her that he could not find it in his heart to condemn him.
"In your own words, Florence, it was not his fault, but his nature.  I
will take him back, and not even Howard must know of his part in—in my
darkness."

"Howard ought to know everything," she said. "But not now, my dear; by
degrees, as he shall be able to bear it.  He is generous, and I believe
he will forgive."

Mrs. Elbridge returned and stood in the door. "Here comes William," she
said.  The Judge arose. William came in puffing.  "We were looking for
you," said Mrs. Elbridge.

"Well, now," replied the old fellow, "you don’t have to look long for
me, I’ll tell you that.  I made the driver whip his horses all the way
there and back."

"And are you sure that your message caught the train?" said the Judge.

"Oh, I always fetch ’em whenever I go after ’em."

"Are you sure you sent it all right?" the Judge asked.

"John, I thought you’d get well.  But, sir, you exhibit the most
alarming sign of sickness I have ever seen in you.  Sure I sent it all
right!  What other way do I ever do a thing?  Of course I sent it all
right.  The train wasn’t far out, and there’s one back every few
minutes."

"It seems that he has been gone a year instead of two hours," said the
Judge.

Florence smiled at him.  "And are we to be married in secret?" she
asked, speaking low.

"My dear, that shall be as you please.  I have only one wish—that it
shall be one of the happiest days of my life, and I believe that it will
be."

"What day of the month is this?" William asked.

"The fifth," the Judge answered.

"Are you sure?"

"I am sure it is not the tenth of June, sixty-three," said the Judge,
and was in deep regret at his levity at such a time, when his wife spoke
up, "Judge, please don’t get him started."

"Started!" William snorted.  "Now—now, that’s good.  A man races all the
way to the station and back, and they talk about getting him started."
Suddenly he thrust his hands into his pockets and stood staring at the
wall.  "Well, if that don’t beat anything I ever saw."

"What is the trouble?" the Judge asked.

"Why, I dated that telegram the fourth."

"You did!" Mrs. Elbridge cried.  The Judge looked hard at his brother.
"It won’t make any difference," said Florence.  "He will know that it
was a mistake."

"He will undoubtedly know who sent it," the Judge added.

"I wonder why Mr. Bradley and Agnes stay in that dingy place," said Mrs.
Elbridge, always anxious to change the talk from William’s dates.

"The place may be dingy," replied the Judge, "but there are no cobwebs
hanging from the rafters in the abode of love."

"Judge!" she said, giving him a smiling frown.

"To some eyes," remarked Florence, half musingly, "there may be cobwebs
hanging from the rafters in love’s abode, but to love they are strands
of gold."

"Let us go out and watch for his coming," said Mrs. Elbridge, taking
Florence by the arm.  They went out, leaving William staring at the
Judge.

"By the way, what’s this I happened to hear about brother Henry being
dead?  I didn’t know he was dead till he wasn’t."

"You didn’t?"

"I mean I heard the news of his death and the contradiction about the
same time.  Why did you keep it from me?"

"Oh, I knew there wasn’t any truth in the report, and there wasn’t
anything to be gained by telling you."

"Anything to be gained.  Do you only tell a man a thing when there is
something to be gained by it?"

The Judge looked at the clock and then at his watch.  "He ought to be
here pretty soon.  I want everybody to keep away from me.  I want to see
him first alone—in here."

"But what’s all this mystery about?  I’ll be hanged if you haven’t put
my light under a bushel."

"No, William, it is my light that has been under a bushel."

"Everything may be all right, John, but I don’t understand it.  There
was something I wanted to say.  Yes.  In case I forget it, tell him the
date was a mistake."

"You won’t forget it, William.  You never forget a mistaken date."

"There you go again.  Can’t a man make a request?"

"I believe a man can, William."

"You don’t believe anything of the sort, and you know it.  But I won’t
be left in the dark.  I refuse to stumble in ignorance."  He started
toward the door.

"What are you going to do?"

"I am going to get the morning paper and settle that date."

"All right," said the Judge, as William went out. "And tell them out
there that I must see him here alone.  Don’t forget that."  He walked up
and down the room and then stood at the door.  "Do you see anything of
him yet?" he called to his wife.

"Not yet.  It isn’t time.  But here’s a cab.  It’s going to stop—no,
it’s gone on."

"Let me get there," said the Judge, as if the others were responsible
for the fact that the cab had not halted and put Howard down at the
door.  A moment after he went out Bradley and Agnes entered the room.
"They are gone to watch for him. Shall we go, too?" the girl asked,
looking at him with a mischievous quiz in her eyes.

"No, let us stop here a moment.  Strange, isn’t it, his going away and
coming back so soon?"

They sat on a sofa, looking at each other as if new interests were
constantly springing up.

"We have talked all over the house," she said. "I feel as if I have been
on an excursion.  Yes, it is strange.  Don’t you think they have
quarreled?"

"Perhaps—but it will bring them closer together."

"Yes," she said, "but I wouldn’t like to quarrel just to be brought
closer together.  I wonder why Mr. Bodney went away, too."

"And you ask?"

"Yes, didn’t you hear me?  I heard him muttering as he went out.  And I
understood him to say that he wasn’t coming back any more."

"I thought you knew why he went."

"Thought I did?  How was I to know?"

"I could not help but think—"

"What did you think?" she broke in.

"That he had asked you to be his wife and—"

"Oh, he never thought of such a thing."

"And if he should?"

"I’d tell him no, of course."

"You may have to say yes sometime, Agnes."

She looked down.  "I won’t have to—but I may."

"Agnes, do you know what love is?"

"What a question.  Of course I do."

"What is it?"

"Oh, it’s er—er—don’t you know what it is?"

"Yes, Agnes, it is a glorious defeat of the heart."

"Oh, I don’t think so.  It’s more a victory than a defeat."

"No, the heart surrenders."  They heard the Judge exclaim, "No, it is
not going to stop."

"Agnes, did your heart ever surrender?"

"You must not ask me that."

"Why not?  Did your heart ever fight till it was so tired that it had to
give up—surrender?"

"You mustn’t ask me that.  You’ll make me cry." She hid her eyes.

"In sorrow, Agnes?"

"No—no, in happiness."

He put his arms about her, kissed her, pouring forth his dream of the
fountain and the evening in summer.  The Judge startled them.  "Don’t
let me disturb your tableau," he said, laughing, "but I must see my son
in here alone, not in the office where—where the safe is."

"Come," said Bradley, taking Agnes by the hand, "Let us watch with
them."

As they arose the Judge looked at Agnes.  "Ah, I see happiness in your
face, little one.  Keep it there, Bradley, for it is God-given."  He
took the preacher’s hand.  "God bless you, Bradley.  You are a good
fellow."

"Don’t call him fellow, Mr. Judge," said the girl, pretending to pout.

"Yes, fellow," Bradley replied.  "It is closer to the weakness of man."

"Closer to his heart, Bradley," said the Judge.

"Yes," said Bradley, and then he spoke to Agnes. "Come with me."

"Anywhere with you," she replied, taking his arm and looking up into his
face.  They passed out, and the Judge stood, waiting.  William appeared
at the door.  "It’s all right now, John."

"What’s all right?"

"That date—the one that caused so much trouble one night.  It was on the
tenth."

"Is it finally settled?" the Judge asked, listening.

"Yes, sir, finally, and nothing can throw me off. Here comes Howard."
The Judge motioned, and William withdrew.  Howard’s footsteps were
heard.  The old man stood with his face turned from the door, striving
to master himself.  He felt that surely he should break down.  Howard
stepped into the room.  "Father," he said.  The Judge turned, and,
perfectly calm, held forth his hand. Howard grasped it.  "My son, let us
be masters of ourselves.  Let us be strong, for you will have need of
strength.  I have something to tell you."

"No," Howard replied.  "You have nothing to tell.  George met me at the
station and told me.  I have forgiven him.  I know how he has suffered.
I have seen his struggles.  He must not be sent away. I have brought him
back with me.  He is out there."

"Howard," said the old man, "you are a noble fellow."

Howard stepped to the door and called Bodney. When he entered the Judge
said: "George, I am going to rent an office in a modern building.  That
old place is worn out.  We are going to start new. Ah, come in,
Florence."

"I have simply come to tell you that dinner is ready," she said, with
tears in her eyes.

"Yes," said the Judge.  "Come, boys."  Florence led the way, looking
back, smiling, and the old man went out between Bodney and Howard, with
his hands resting on their shoulders.  In the hall stood Agnes, the
preacher and William.  The preacher was speaking.  "If there were but
one word to express all the qualities of God, I should select the word
forgiveness," he said.
﻿
The young Frenchman did very well what he had planned to do. His guess
that the Duke would cheat proved good. As the unshod half-dozen figures
that had been standing noiselessly in the entryway stole softly into the
shadows of the chamber, he leaned across the table and smilingly plucked
a card out of the big Englishman’s sleeve.

“Merci, M. le Duc!” he laughed, rising and stepping back from the table.

The Englishman cried out, “It means the dirty work of silencing you with
my bare hands!” and came at him.

“Do not move,” said M. Beaucaire, so sharply that the other paused.
“Observe behind you.”

The Englishman turned, and saw what trap he had blundered into; then
stood transfixed, impotent, alternately scarlet with rage and white
with the vital shame of discovery. M. Beaucaire remarked, indicating the
silent figures by a polite wave of the hand, “Is it not a compliment
to monsieur that I procure six large men to subdue him? They are quite
devote’ to me, and monsieur is alone. Could it be that he did not wish
even his lackeys to know he play with the yo’ng Frenchman who Meestaire
Nash does not like in the pomp-room? Monsieur is unfortunate to have
come on foot and alone to my apartment.”

The Duke’s mouth foamed over with chaotic revilement. His captor
smiled brightly, and made a slight gesture, as one who brushes aside
a boisterous insect. With the same motion he quelled to stony quiet a
resentful impetus of his servants toward the Englishman.

“It’s murder, is it, you carrion!” finished the Duke.

M. Beaucaire lifted his shoulders in a mock shiver. “What words! No, no,
no! No killing! A such word to a such host! No, no, not mur-r-der; only
disgrace!” He laughed a clear, light laugh with a rising inflection,
seeming to launch himself upon an adventurous quest for sympathy.

“You little devilish scullion!” spat out the Duke.

“Tut, tut! But I forget. Monsieur has pursue’ his studies of deportment
amongs’ his fellow-countrymen.

“Do you dream a soul in Bath will take your word that I--that I--”

“That M. le Duc de Winterset had a card up his sleeve?”

“You pitiful stroller, you stableboy, born in a stable--”

“Is it not an honor to be born where monsieur must have been bred?”

“You scurvy foot-boy, you greasy barber, you cutthroat groom--”

“Overwhelm’!” The young man bowed with imperturbable elation. “M. le Duc
appoint’ me to all the office’ of his househol’.”

“You mustachioed fool, there are not five people of quality in Bath will
speak to you--”

“No, monsieur, not on the parade; but how many come to play with me
here? Because I will play always, night or day, for what one will, for
any long, and always fair, monsieur.”

“You outrageous varlet! Every one knows you came to England as the
French Ambassador’s barber. What man of fashion will listen to you? Who
will believe you?”

“All people, monsieur. Do you think I have not calculate’, that I shall
make a failure of my little enterprise?”

“Bah!”

“Will monsieur not reseat himself?” M. Beaucaire made a low bow. “So. We
must not be too tire’ for Lady Malbourne’s rout. Ha, ha! And you,
Jean, Victor, and you others, retire; go in the hallway. Attend at the
entrance, Francois. So; now we shall talk. Monsieur, I wish you to think
very cool. Then listen; I will be briefly. It is that I am well known to
be all, entire’ hones’. Gamblist? Ah, yes; true and mos profitable;
but fair, always fair; every one say that. Is it not so? Think of it.
And--is there never a w’isper come to M. le Duc that not all people
belief him to play always hones’? Ha, ha! Did it almos’ be said to
him las’ year, after when he play’ with Milor’ Tappin’ford at the
chocolate-house--”

“You dirty scandal-monger!” the Duke burst out. “I’ll--”

“Monsieur, monsieur!” said the Frenchman. “It is a poor valor to insult
a helpless captor. Can he retort upon his own victim? But it is for you
to think of what I say. True, I am not reco’nize on the parade; that my
frien’s who come here do not present me to their ladies; that Meestaire
Nash has reboff’ me in the pomp-room; still, am I not known for being
hones’ and fair in my play, and will I not be belief, even I, when I
lif’ my voice and charge you aloud with what is already w’isper’? Think
of it! You are a noble, and there will be some hang-dogs who might not
fall away from you. Only such would be lef’ to you. Do you want it tol’?
And you can keep out of France, monsieur? I have lef’ his service, but
I have still the ear of M. de Mirepoix, and he know’ I never lie. Not a
gentleman will play you when you come to Paris.”

The Englishman’s white lip showed a row of scarlet dots upon it. “How
much do you want?” he said.

The room rang with the gay laughter of Beaucaire. “I hol’ your note’ for
seven-hunder’ pound’. You can have them, monsieur. Why does a such great
man come to play M. Beaucaire? Because no one else willin’ to play M.
le Duc--he cannot pay. Ha, ha! So he come’ to good Monsieur Beaucaire.
Money, ha, ha! What I want with money?”

His Grace of Winterset’s features were set awry to a sinister pattern.
He sat glaring at his companion in a snarling silence.

“Money? Pouf!” snapped the little gambler. “No, no, no! It is that M.
le Duc, impoverish’, somewhat in a bad odor as he is, yet command the
entree any-where--onless I--Ha, ha! Eh, monsieur?”

“Ha! You dare think to force me--”

M. Beaucaire twirled the tip of his slender mustache around the end
of his white forefinger. Then he said: “Monsieur and me goin’ to Lady
Malbourne’s ball to-night--M. le Duc and me!”

The Englishman roared, “Curse your impudence!”

“Sit quiet. Oh, yes, that’s all; we goin’ together.”

“No!”

“Certain. I make all my little plan’. ‘Tis all arrange’.” He paused, and
then said gravely, “You goin’ present me to Lady Mary Carlisle.”

The other laughed in utter scorn. “Lady Mary Carlisle, of all women
alive, would be the first to prefer the devil to a man of no birth,
barber.”

“‘Tis all arrange’; have no fear; nobody question monsieur’s You goin’
take me to-night--”

“No!”

“Yes. And after--then I have the entree. Is it much I ask? This one
little favor, and I never w’isper, never breathe that--it is to say, I
am always forever silent of monsieur’s misfortune.”

“You have the entree!” sneered the other. “Go to a lackeys’ rout and
dance with the kitchen maids. If I would, I could not present you to
Bath society. I should have cartels from the fathers, brothers, and
lovers of every wench and madam in the place, even I. You would be
thrust from Lady Malbourne’s door five minutes after you entered it.”

“No, no, no!”

“Half the gentlemen in Bath have been here to play. They would know
you, wouldn’t they, fool? You’ve had thousands out of Bantison, Rakell,
Guilford, and Townbrake. They would have you lashed by the grooms as
your ugly deserts are. You to speak to Lady Mary Carlisle! ‘Od’s blood!
You! Also, dolt, she would know you if you escaped the others. She stood
within a yard of you when Nash expelled you the pump-room.”

M. Beaucaire flushed slightly. “You think I did not see?” he asked.

“Do you dream that’ because Winterset introduces a low fellow he will be
tolerated--that Bath will receive a barber?”

“I have the distinction to call monsieur’s attention,” replied the young
man gayly, “I have renounce that profession.”

“Fool!”

“I am now a man of honor!”

“Faugh!”

“A man of the parts,” continued the the young Frenchman, “and of
deportment; is it not so? Have you seen me of a fluster, or gross ever,
or, what sall I say--bourgeois? Shall you be shame’ for your guest’
manner? No, no! And my appearance, is it of the people? Clearly, no. Do
I not compare in taste of apparel with your yo’ng Englishman? Ha, ha! To
be hope’. Ha, ha! So I am goin’ talk with Lady Mary Carlisle.”

“Bah!” The Duke made a savage burlesque. “‘Lady Mary Carlisle, may I
assume the honor of presenting the barber of the Marquis de Mirepoix?’
So, is it?”

“No, monsieur,” smiled the young man. “Quite not so. You shall have
nothing to worry you, nothing in the worl’. I am goin’ to assassinate my
poor mustachio--also remove this horrible black peruke, and emerge in my
own hair. Behol’!” He swept the heavy curled, mass from his head as he
spoke, and his hair, coiled under the great wig, fell to his shoulders,
and sparkled yellow in the candle-light. He tossed his head to shake the
hair back from his cheeks. “When it is dress’, I am transform nobody can
know me; you shall observe. See how little I ask of you, how very little
bit. No one shall reco’nize ‘M. Beaucaire’ or ‘Victor.’ Ha, ha! ‘Tis all
arrange’; you have nothing to fear.”

“Curse you,” said the Duke, “do you think I’m going to be saddled with
you wherever I go as long as you choose?”

“A mistake. No. All I requi--All I beg--is this one evening. ‘Tis all
shall be necessary. After, I shall not need monsieur.

“Take heed to yourself--after!” vouchsafed the Englishman between his
teeth.

“Conquered!” cried M. Beaucaire, and clapped his hands gleefully.
“Conquered for the night! Aha, it ts riz’nable! I shall meet what
you send--after. One cannot hope too much of your patience. It is but
natural you should attemp’ a little avengement for the rascal trap I
was such a wicked fellow as to set for you. I shall meet some strange
frien’s of yours after to-night; not so? I must try to be not too much
frighten’.” He looked at the Duke curiously. “You want to know why I
create this tragedy, why I am so unkind as to entrap monsieur?”

His Grace of Winterset replied with a chill glance; a pulse in the
nobleman’s cheek beat less relentlessly; his eye raged not so bitterly;
the steady purple of his own color was returning; his voice was less
hoarse; he was regaining his habit. “‘Tis ever the manner of the
vulgar,” he observed, “to wish to be seen with people of fashion.”

“Oh, no, no, no!” The Frenchman laughed. “‘Tis not that. Am I not
already one of these ‘men of fashion’? I lack only the reputation of
birth. Monsieur is goin’ supply that. Ha, ha! I shall be noble from
to-night. ‘Victor,’ the artis’, is condemn’ to death; his throat shall
be cut with his own razor. ‘M. Beaucaire--’” Here the young man sprang
to his feet, caught up the black wig, clapped into it a dice-box
from the table, and hurled it violently through the open door. “‘M.
Beaucaire’ shall be choke’ with his own dice-box. Who is the Phoenix to
remain? What advantage have I not over other men of rank who are merely
born to it? I may choose my own. No! Choose for me, monsieur. Shall I
be chevalier, comte, vicomte, marquis, what? None. Out of compliment to
monsieur can I wish to be anything he is not? No, no! I shall be M.
le Duc, M. le Duc de--de Chateaurien. Ha, ha! You see? You are my
confrere.”

M. Beaucaire trod a dainty step or two, waving his hand politely to the
Duke, as though in invitation to join the celebration of his rank.
The Englishman watched, his eye still and harsh, already gathering in
craftiness. Beaucaire stopped suddenly. “But how I forget my age! I am
twenty-three,” he said, with a sigh. “I rejoice too much to be of the
quality. It has been too great for me, and I had always belief’ myself
free of such ambition. I thought it was enough to behol’ the opera
without wishing to sing; but no, England have teach’ me I have those
vulgar desire’. Monsieur, I am goin’ tell you a secret: the ladies of
your country are very diff’runt than ours. One may adore the demoiselle,
one must worship the lady of England. Our ladies have the--it is the
beauty of youth; yours remain comely at thirty. Ours are flowers, yours
are stars! See, I betray myself, I am so poor a patriot. And there is
one among these stars--ah, yes, there is one--the poor Frenchman has
observe’ from his humble distance; even there he could bask in the
glowing!” M. Beaucaire turned to the window, and looked out into the
dark. He did not see the lights of the town. When he turned again, he
had half forgotten his prisoner; other pictures were before him.

“Ah, what radiance!” he cried. “Those people up over the sky, they want
to show they wish the earth to be happy, so they smile, and make this
lady. Gold-haired, an angel of heaven, and yet a Diana of the chase! I
see her fly by me on her great horse one day; she touch’ his mane with
her fingers. I buy that clipping from the groom. I have it here with my
dear brother’s picture. Ah, you! Oh, yes, you laugh! What do you know!
‘Twas all I could get. But I have heard of the endeavor of M. le Duc to
recoup his fortunes. This alliance shall fail. It is not the way--that
heritage shall be safe’ from him! It is you and me, monsieur! You can
laugh! The war is open’, and by me! There is one great step taken: until
to-night there was nothing for you to ruin, to-morrow you have got a
noble of France--your own protege--to besiege and sack. And you are
to lose, because you think such ruin easy, and because you understand
nothing--far less--of divinity. How could you know? You have not the
fiber; the heart of a lady is a blank to you; you know nothing of the
vibration. There are some words that were made only to tell of Lady
Mary, for her alone--bellissima, divine, glorieuse! Ah, how I have
watch’ her! It is sad to me when I see her surround’ by your yo’ng
captains, your nobles, your rattles, your beaux--ha, ha!--and I mus’
hol’ far aloof. It is sad for me--but oh, jus’ to watch her and to
wonder! Strange it is, but I have almos’ cry out with rapture at a look
I have see’ her give another man, so beautiful it was, so tender, so
dazzling of the eyes and so mirthful of the lips. Ah, divine coquetry! A
look for another, ah-i-me! for many others; and even to you, one day,
a rose, while I--I, monsieur, could not even be so blessed as to be
the groun’ beneath her little shoe! But to-night, monsieur--ha,
ha!--to-night, monsieur, you and me, two princes, M. le Duc de
Winterset and M. le Duc de Chateaurien--ha, ha! you see?--we are goin’
arm-in-arm to that ball, and I am goin’ have one of those looks, I! And
a rose! I! It is time. But ten minute’, monsieur. I make my apology to
keep you waitin’ so long while I go in the nex’ room and execute my poor
mustachio--that will be my only murder for jus’ this one evening--and
inves’ myself in white satin. Ha, ha! I shall be very gran’, monsieur.
Francois, send Louis to me; Victor, to order two chairs for monsieur and
me; we are goin’ out in the worl’ to-right!”


Chapter Two


The chairmen swarmed in the street at Lady Malbourne’s door, where the
joyous vulgar fought with muddied footmen and tipsy link-boys for places
of vantage whence to catch a glimpse of quality and of raiment at its
utmost. Dawn was in the east, and the guests were departing. Singly or
in pairs, glittering in finery, they came mincing down the steps, the
ghost of the night’s smirk fading to jadedness as they sought the dark
recesses of their chairs. From within sounded the twang of fiddles still
swinging manfully at it, and the windows were bright with the light of
many candles. When the door was flung open to call the chair of Lady
Mary Carlisle, there was an eager pressure of the throng to see.

A small, fair gentleman in white satin came out upon the steps, turned
and bowed before a lady who appeared in the doorway, a lady whose royal
loveliness was given to view for a moment in that glowing frame. The
crowd sent up a hearty English cheer for the Beauty of Bath.

The gentleman smiled upon them delightedly. “What enchanting people!” he
cried. “Why did I not know, so I might have shout’ with them?” The
lady noticed the people not at all; whereat, being pleased, the people
cheered again. The gentleman offered her his hand; she made a slow
courtesy; placed the tips of her fingers upon his own. “I am honored, M.
de Chateaurien,” she said.

“No, no!” he cried earnestly. “Behol’ a poor Frenchman whom emperors
should envy.” Then reverently and with the pride of his gallant office
vibrant in every line of his slight figure, invested in white satin and
very grand, as he had prophesied, M. le Duc de Chateaurien handed Lady
Mary Carlisle down the steps, an achievement which had figured in the
ambitions of seven other gentlemen during the evening.

“Am I to be lef’in such onhappiness?” he said in a low voice. “That rose
I have beg’ for so long--”


“Never!” said Lady Mary.

“Ah, I do not deserve it, I know so well! But--”

“Never!”

“It is the greatness of my onworthiness that alone can claim your
charity; let your kin’ heart give this little red rose, this great alms,
to the poor beggar.”

“Never!”

She was seated in the chair. “Ah, give the rose,” he whispered. Her
beauty shone dazzlingly on him out of the dimness.

“Never!” she flashed defiantly as she was closed in. “Never!”

“Never!”

The rose fell at his feet.


“A rose lasts till morning,” said a voice behind him.

Turning, M. de Chateaurien looked beamingly upon the face of the Duke of
Winterset.

“‘Tis already the daylight,” he replied, pointing to the east.
“Monsieur, was it not enough honor for you to han’ out madame, the aunt
of Lady Mary? Lady Rellerton retain much trace of beauty. ‘Tis strange
you did not appear more happy.”

“The rose is of an unlucky color, I think,” observed the Duke.

“The color of a blush, my brother.”

“Unlucky, I still maintain,” said the other calmly.

“The color of the veins of a Frenchman. Ha, ha!” cried the young man.
“What price would be too high? A rose is a rose! A good-night, my
brother, a good-night. I wish you dreams of roses, red roses, only
beautiful red, red roses!”

“Stay! Did you see the look she gave these street folk when they shouted
for her? And how are you higher than they, when she knows? As high as
yonder horse-boy!”

“Red roses, my brother, only roses. I wish you dreams of red, red
roses!”


Chapter Three


It was well agreed by the fashion of Bath that M. le Duc de Chateaurien
was a person of sensibility and haut ton; that his retinue and equipage
surpassed in elegance; that his person was exquisite, his manner
engaging. In the company of gentlemen his ease was slightly tinged with
graciousness (his single equal in Bath being his Grace of Winterset);
but it was remarked that when he bowed over a lady’s hand, his air
bespoke only a gay and tender reverence.

He was the idol of the dowagers within a week after his appearance;
matrons warmed to him; young belles looked sweetly on him, while the
gentlemen were won to admiration or envy. He was of prodigious wealth:
old Mr. Bicksit, who dared not, for his fame’s sake, fail to have seen
all things, had visited Chateaurien under the present Duke’s father,
and descanted to the curious upon its grandeurs. The young noble had one
fault, he was so poor a gambler. He cared nothing for the hazards of a
die or the turn of a card. Gayly admitting that he had been born with no
spirit of adventure in him, he was sure, he declared, that he failed of
much happiness by his lack of taste in such matters.

But he was not long wanting the occasion to prove his taste in the
matter of handling a weapon. A certain led-captain, Rohrer by
name, notorious, amongst other things, for bearing a dexterous and
bloodthirsty blade, came to Bath post-haste, one night, and jostled
heartily against him, in the pump-room on the following morning. M.
de Chauteaurien bowed, and turned aside without offense, continuing a
conversation with some gentlemen near by. Captain Rohrer jostled
against him a second time. M. de Chateaurien looked him in the eye, and
apologized pleasantly for being so much in the way. Thereupon Rohrer
procured an introduction to him, and made some observations derogatory
to the valor and virtue of the French. There was current a curious piece
of gossip of the French court: a prince of the blood royal, grandson of
the late Regent and second in the line of succession to the throne
of France, had rebelled against the authority of Louis XV, who had
commanded him to marry the Princess Henriette, cousin to both of them.
The princess was reported to be openly devoted to the cousin who refused
to accept her hand at the bidding of the king; and, as rumor ran, the
prince’s caprice elected in preference the discipline of Vincennes, to
which retirement the furious king had consigned him. The story was the
staple gossip of all polite Europe; and Captain Rohrer, having in his
mind a purpose to make use of it in leading up to a statement that
should be general to the damage of all Frenchwomen, and which a
Frenchman might not pass over as he might a jog of the elbow, repeated
it with garbled truths to make a scandal of a story which bore none on a
plain relation.

He did not reach his deduction. M. de Chateaurien, breaking into his
narrative, addressed him very quietly. “Monsieur,” he said, “none but
swine deny the nobleness of that good and gentle lady, Mademoiselle la
Princesse de Bourbon-Conti. Every Frenchman know’ that her cousin is a
bad rebel and ingrate, who had only honor and rispec’ for her, but was
so wilful he could not let even the king say, ‘You shall marry here,
you shall marry there.’ My frien’s,” the young man turned to the others,
“may I ask you to close roun’ in a circle for one moment? It is clearly
shown that the Duke of Orleans is a scurvy fellow, but not--” he wheeled
about and touched Captain Rohrer on the brow with the back of his gloved
hand--“but not so scurvy as thou, thou swine of the gutter!”

Two hours later, with perfect ease, he ran Captain Rohrer through the
left shoulder--after which he sent a basket of red roses to the Duke
of Winterset. In a few days he had another captain to fight. This was
a ruffling buck who had the astounding indiscretion to proclaim M.
de Chateaurien an impostor. There was no Chateaurien, he swore. The
Frenchman laughed in his face, and, at twilight of the same day, pinked
him carefully through the right shoulder. It was not that he could
not put aside the insult to himself, he declared to Mr. Molyneux,
his second, and the few witnesses, as he handed his wet sword to his
lackey--one of his station could not be insulted by a doubt of that
station--but he fought in the quarrel of his friend Winterset. This
rascal had asserted that M. le Duc had introduced an impostor. Could he
overlook the insult to a friend, one to whom he owed his kind reception
in Bath? Then, bending over his fallen adversary, he whispered: “Naughty
man, tell your master find some better quarrel for the nex’ he sen’
agains’ me.”

The conduct of M. de Chateaurien was pronounced admirable.

There was no surprise when the young foreigner fell naturally into the
long train of followers of the beautiful Lady Mary Carlisle, nor was
there great astonishment that he should obtain marked favor in her eyes,
shown so plainly that my Lord Townbrake, Sir Hugh Guilford, and the rich
Squire Bantison, all of whom had followed her through three seasons,
swore with rage, and his Grace of Winterset stalked from her aunt’s
house with black brows.

Meeting the Duke there on the evening after his second encounter de
Chateaurien smiled upon him brilliantly. “It was badly done; oh, so
badly!” he whispered. “Can you afford to have me strip’ of my mask by
any but yourself? You, who introduce’ me? They will say there is some
bad scandal that I could force you to be my god-father. You mus’ get the
courage yourself.”

“I told you a rose had a short life,” was the answer.

“Oh, those roses! ‘Tis the very greates’ rizzon to gather each day
a fresh one.” He took a red bud from his breast for an instant, and
touched it to his lips.

“M. de Chateaurien!” It was Lady Mary’s voice; she stood at a table
where a vacant place had been left beside her. “M. de Chateaurien, we
have been waiting very long for you.”

The Duke saw the look she did not know she gave the Frenchman, and he
lost countenance for a moment.

“We approach a climax, eh, monsieur?” said M. de Chateaurien.



Chapter Four


There fell a clear September night, when the moon was radiant over town
and country, over cobbled streets and winding roads. From the fields the
mists rose slowly, and the air was mild and fragrant, while distances
were white and full of mystery. All of Bath that pretended to fashion or
condition was present that evening at a fete at the house of a country
gentleman of the neighborhood. When the stately junket was concluded, it
was the pleasure of M. de Chateaurien to form one of the escort of Lady
Mary’s carriage for the return. As they took the road, Sir Hugh Guilford
and Mr. Bantison, engaging in indistinct but vigorous remonstrance with
Mr. Molyneux over some matter, fell fifty or more paces behind, where
they continued to ride, keeping up their argument. Half a dozen other
gallants rode in advance, muttering among themselves, or attended laxly
upon Lady Mary’s aunt on the other side of the coach, while the happy
Frenchman was permitted to ride close to that adorable window which
framed the fairest face in England.

He sang for her a little French song, a song of the voyageur who dreamed
of home. The lady, listening, looking up at the bright moon, felt a warm
drop upon her cheek, and he saw the tears sparkling upon her lashes.

“Mademoiselle,” he whispered then, “I, too, have been a wanderer, but my
dreams were not of France; no, I do not dream of that home, of that dear
country. It is of a dearer country, a dream country--a country of gold
and snow,” he cried softly, looking it her white brow and the fair,
lightly powdered hair above it. “Gold and snow, and the blue sky of a
lady’s eyes!”

“I had thought the ladies of France were dark, sir.

“Cruel! It is that she will not understan’! Have I speak of the ladies
of France? No, no, no! It is of the faires’ country; yes, ‘tis a
province of heaven, mademoiselle. Do I not renounce my allegiance to
France? Oh, yes! I am subjec’--no, content to be slave--in the lan’ of
the blue sky, the gold, and the snow.

“A very pretty figure,” answered Lady Mary, her eyes downcast. “But does
it not hint a notable experience in the making of such speeches?”

“Tormentress! No. It prove only the inspiration it is to know you.”

“We English ladies hear plenty of the like sir; and we even grow
brilliant enough to detect the assurance that lies beneath the
courtesies of our own gallants.”

“Merci! I should believe so!” ejaculated M. de Chateaurien: but he
smothered the words upon his lips.

Her eyes were not lifted. She went on: “We come, in time, to believe
that true feeling comes faltering forth, not glibly; that smoothness
betokens the adept in the art, sir, rather than your true--your true--”
 She was herself faltering; more, blushing deeply, and halting to a full
stop in terror of a word. There was a silence.

“Your--true--lover,” he said huskily. When he had said that word both
trembled. She turned half away into the darkness of the coach.

“I know what make’ you to doubt me,” he said, faltering himself, though
it was not his art that prompted him. “They have tol’ you the French
do nothing always but make love, is it not so? Yes, you think I am like
that. You think I am like that now!”

She made no sign.

“I suppose,” he sighed, “I am unriz’nable; I would have the snow not so
col’--for jus’ me.”

She did not answer.

“Turn to me,” he said.

The fragrance of the fields came to them, and from the distance the
faint, clear note of a hunting-horn.

“Turn to me.”

The lovely head was bent very low. Her little gloved hand lay upon the
narrow window ledge. He laid his own gently upon it. The two hands were
shaking like twin leaves in the breeze. Hers was not drawn away. After
a pause, neither knew how long, he felt the warm fingers turn and clasp
themselves tremulously about his own. At last she looked up bravely and
met his eyes. The horn was wound again--nearer.

“All the cold was gone from the snows--long ago,” she said.

“My beautiful!” he whispered; it was all he could say. “My beautiful!”
 But she clutched his arm, startled.

“‘Ware the road!” A wild halloo sounded ahead. The horn wound loudly.
“‘Ware the road!” There sprang up out of the night a flying thunder of
hoof-beats. The gentlemen riding idly in front of the coach scattered to
the hedge-sides; and, with drawn swords flashing in the moon, a party of
horsemen charged down the highway, their cries blasting the night.

“Barber! Kill the barber!” they screamed. “Barber! Kill the barber!”

Beaucaire had but time to draw his sword when they were upon him.

“A moi!” his voice rang out clearly as he rose in his stirrups. “A moi,
Francois, Louis, Berquin! A moi, Francois!”

The cavaliers came straight at him. He parried the thrust of the first,
but the shock of collision hurled his horse against the side of the
coach. “Sacred swine!” he cried bitterly. “To endanger a lady, to make
this brawl in a lady’s presence! Drive on!” he shouted.

“No!” cried Lady Mary.

The Frenchman’s assailants were masked, but they were not highwaymen.
“Barber! Barber!” they shouted hoarsely, and closed in on him in a
circle.

“See how he use his steel!” laughed M. Beaucaire, as his point passed
through a tawdry waistcoat. For a moment he cut through the ring and
cleared a space about him, and Lady Mary saw his face shining in the
moonlight. “Canaille!” he hissed, as his horse sank beneath him; and,
though guarding his head from the rain of blows from above, he managed
to drag headlong from his saddle the man who had hamstrung the poor
brute. The fellow came suddenly to the ground, and lay there.

“Is it not a compliment,” said a heavy voice, “to bring six large men to
subdue monsieur?”

“Oh, you are there, my frien’! In the rear--a little in the rear, I
think. Ha, ha!”

The Frenchman’s play with his weapon was a revelation of skill, the more
extraordinary as he held in his hand only a light dress sword. But the
ring closed about him, and his keen defense could not avail him for more
than a few moments. Lady Mary’s outriders, the gallants of her escort,
rode up close to the coach and encircled it, not interfering.

“Sir Hugh Guilford!” cried Lady Mary wildly, “if you will not help him,
give me your sword!” She would have leaped to the ground, but Sir Hugh
held the door.

“Sit quiet, madam,” he said to her; then, to the man on the box, “Drive
on.”

“If he does, I’ll kill him!” she said fiercely. “Ah, what cowards! Will
you see the Duke murdered?”

“The Duke!” laughed Guilford. “They will not kill him, unless--be easy,
dear madam, ‘twill be explained. Gad’s life!” he muttered to Molyneux,
“‘Twere time the varlet had his lashing! D’ye hear her?”

“Barber or no barber,” answered Molyneux, “I wish I had warned him. He
fights as few gentlemen could. Ah--ah! Look at that! ‘Tis a shame!”

On foot, his hat gone, his white coat sadly rent and gashed, flecked,
too, with red, M. Beaucaire, wary, alert, brilliant, seemed to transform
himself into a dozen fencing-masters; and, though his skill appeared
to lie in delicacy and quickness, his play being continually with
the point, sheer strength failed to beat him down. The young man was
laughing like a child.

“Believe me,” said Molyneux “he’s no barber! No, and never was!”

For a moment there was even a chance that M. Beaucaire might have the
best of it. Two of his adversaries were prostrate, more than one were
groaning, and the indomitable Frenchman had actually almost beat off the
ruffians, when, by a trick, he was overcome. One of them, dismounting,
ran in suddenly from behind, and seized his blade in a thick leather
gauntlet. Before Beaucaire could disengage the weapon, two others threw
themselves from their horses and hurled him to the earth. “A moi! A moi,
Francois!” he cried as he went down, his sword in fragments, but his
voice unbroken and clear.

“Shame!” muttered one or two of the gentlemen about the coach.

“‘Twas dastardly to take him so,” said Molyneux. “Whatever his
deservings, I’m nigh of a mind to offer him a rescue in the Duke’s
face.”

“Truss him up, lads,” said the heavy voice. “Clear the way in front of
the coach. There sit those whom we avenge upon a presumptuous lackey.
Now, Whiffen, you have a fair audience, lay on and baste him.”

Two men began to drag M. Beaucaire toward a great oak by the roadside.
Another took from his saddle a heavy whip with three thongs.

“A moi, Francois!”

There was borne on the breeze an answer--“Monseigneur! Monseigneur!”
 The cry grew louder suddenly. The clatter of hoofs urged to an anguish
of speed sounded on the night. M. Beaucaire’s servants had lagged sorely
behind, but they made up for it now. Almost before the noise of their
own steeds they came riding down the moonlit aisle between the mists.
Chosen men, these servants of Beaucaire, and like a thunderbolt they
fell upon the astounded cavaliers.

“Chateaurien! Chateaurien!” they shouted, and smote so swiftly that,
through lack of time, they showed no proper judgment, discriminating
nothing between non-combatants and their master’s foes. They charged
first into the group about M. Beaucaire, and broke and routed it
utterly. Two of them leaped to the young man’s side, while the other
four, swerving, scarce losing the momentum of their onset, bore on upon
the gentlemen near the coach, who went down beneath the fierceness of
the onslaught, cursing manfully.

“Our just deserts,” said Mr. Molyneux, his mouth full of dust and
philosophy.

Sir Hugh Guilford’s horse fell with him, being literally ridden over,
and the baronet’s leg was pinned under the saddle. In less than ten
minutes from the first attack on M. Beaucaire, the attacking party
had fled in disorder, and the patrician non-combatants, choking with
expletives, consumed with wrath, were prisoners, disarmed by the
Frenchman’s lackeys.

Guilford’s discomfiture had freed the doors of the coach; so it was that
when M. Beaucaire, struggling to rise, assisted by his servants, threw
out one hand to balance himself, he found it seized between two small,
cold palms, and he looked into two warm, dilating eyes, that were doubly
beautiful because of the fright and rage that found room in them, too.

M. le Duc Chateaurien sprang to his feet without the aid of his lackeys,
and bowed low before Lady Mary.

“I make ten thousan’ apology to be’ the cause of a such melee in your
presence,” he said; and then, turning to Francois, he spoke in French:
“Ah, thou scoundrel! A little, and it had been too late.”

Francois knelt in the dust before him. “Pardon!” he said. “Monseigneur
commanded us to follow far in the rear, to remain unobserved. The wind
malignantly blew against monseigneur’s voice.”

“See what it might have cost, my children,” said his master, pointing
to the ropes with which they would have bound him and to the whip lying
beside them. A shudder passed over the lackey’s frame; the utter horror
in his face echoed in the eyes of his fellows.

“Oh, monseigneur!” Francois sprang back, and tossed his arms to heaven.

“But it did not happen,” said M. Beaucaire.

“It could not!” exclaimed Francois.

“No. And you did very well, my children--” the young man smiled
benevolently--“very well. And now,” he continued, turning to Lady Mary
and speaking in English, “let me be asking of our gallants yonder what
make’ them to be in cabal with highwaymen. One should come to a polite
understanding with them, you think? Not so?”

He bowed, offering his hand to conduct her to the coach, where Molyneux
and his companions, having drawn Sir Hugh from under his horse, were
engaged in reviving and reassuring Lady Rellerton, who had fainted. But
Lady Mary stayed Beaucaire with a gesture, and the two stood where they
were.

“Monseigneur!” she said, with a note of raillery in her voice, but
raillery so tender that he started with happiness. His movement brought
him a hot spasm of pain, and he clapped his hand to a red stain on his
waistcoat.

“You are hurt!”

“It is nothing,” smiled M. Beaucaire. Then, that she might not see
the stain spreading, he held his handkerchief over the spot. “I am a
little--but jus’ a trifling--bruise’; ‘tis all.”

“You shall ride in the coach,” she whispered. “Will you be pleased, M.
de Chateaurien?”

“Ah, my beautiful!” She seemed to wave before him like a shining
mist. “I wish that ride might las’ for always! Can you say that,
mademoiselle?”

“Monseigneur,” she cried in a passion of admiration, “I would what you
would have be, should be. What do you not deserve? You are the bravest
man in the world!”

“Ha, ha! I am jus’ a poor Frenchman.”

“Would that a few Englishmen had shown themselves as ‘poor’ tonight.
The vile cowards, not to help you!” With that, suddenly possessed by her
anger, she swept away from him to the coach.

Sir Hugh, groaning loudly, was being assisted into the vehicle.

“My little poltroons,” she said, “what are you doing with your
fellow-craven, Sir Hugh Guilford, there?”

“Madam,” replied Molyneux humbly, “Sir Hugh’s leg is broken. Lady
Rellerton graciously permits him to be taken in.”

“I do not permit it! M. de Chateaurien rides with us.”

“But--”

“Sir! Leave the wretch to groan by the roadside,” she cried fiercely,
“which plight I would were that of all of you! But there will be a
pretty story for the gossips to-morrow! And I could almost find pity
for you when I think of the wits when you return to town. Fine gentlemen
you; hardy bravos, by heaven! to leave one man to meet a troop of horse
single-handed, while you huddle in shelter until you are overthrown and
disarmed by servants! Oh, the wits! Heaven save you from the wits!”

“Madam.”

“Address me no more! M. de Chateaurien, Lady Rellerton and I will
greatly esteem the honor of your company. Will you come?”

She stepped quickly into the coach, and was gathering her skirts to make
room for the Frenchman, when a heavy voice spoke from the shadows of the
tree by the wayside.

“Lady Mary Carlisle will, no doubt, listen to a word of counsel on this
point.”

The Duke of Winterset rode out into the moonlight, composedly untieing a
mask from about his head. He had not shared the flight of his followers,
but had retired into the shade of the oak, whence he now made his
presence known with the utmost coolness.

“Gracious heavens, ‘tis Winterset!” exclaimed Lady Rellerton.

“Turned highwayman and cut-throat,” cried Lady Mary.

“No, no,” laughed M. Beaucaire, somewhat unsteadily, as he stood,
swaying a little, with one hand on the coach-door, the other pressed
hard on his side, “he only oversee’; he is jus’ a little bashful,
sometime’. He is a great man, but he don’ want all the glory!”

“Barber,” replied the Duke, “I must tell you that I gladly descend to
bandy words with you; your monstrous impudence is a claim to rank
I cannot ignore. But a lackey who has himself followed by six other
lackeys--”

“Ha, ha! Has not M. le Duc been busy all this evening to justify me? And
I think mine mus’ be the bes’ six. Ha, ha! You think?”

“M. de Chateaurien,” said Lady Mary, “we are waiting for you.”

“Pardon,” he replied. “He has something to say; maybe it is bes’ if you
hear it now.”

“I wish to hear nothing from him--ever!”

“My faith, madam,” cried the Duke, “this saucy fellow has paid you the
last insult! He is so sure of you he does not fear you will believe the
truth. When all is told, if you do not agree he deserved the lashing we
planned to--”

“I’ll hear no more!”

“You will bitterly repent it, madam. For your own sake I entreat--”

“And I also,” broke in M. Beaucaire. “Permit me, mademoiselle; let him
speak.”

“Then let him be brief,” said Lady Mary, “for I am earnest to be quit of
him. His explanation or an attack on my friend and on my carriage should
be made to my brother.”

“Alas that he was not here,” said the Duke, “to aid me! Madam, was your
carriage threatened? I have endeavored only to expunge a debt I owed to
Bath and to avenge an insult offered to yourself through--”

“Sir, sir, my patience will bear little more!”

“A thousan’ apology,” said M. Beaucaire. “You will listen, I only beg,
Lady Mary?”

She made an angry gesture of assent.

“Madam, I will be brief as I may. Two months ago there came to Bath a
French gambler calling himself Beaucaire, a desperate fellow with the
cards or dice, and all the men of fashion went to play at his lodging,
where he won considerable sums. He was small, wore a black wig and
mustachio. He had the insolence to show himself everywhere until the
Master of Ceremonies rebuffed him in the pump-room, as you know, and
after that he forbore his visits to the rooms. Mr. Nash explained (and
was confirmed, madam, by indubitable information) that this Beaucaire
was a man of unspeakable, vile, low birth, being, in fact, no other than
a lackey of the French king’s ambassador, Victor by name, de Mirepoix’s
barber. Although his condition was known, the hideous impudence of the
fellow did not desert him, and he remained in Bath, where none would
speak to him.”

“Is your farrago nigh done, sir?”

“A few moments, madam. One evening, three weeks gone, I observed a very
elegant equipage draw up to my door, and the Duke of Chateaurien was
announced. The young man’s manners were worthy--according to the French
acceptance--and ‘twere idle to deny him the most monstrous assurance. He
declared himself a noble traveling for pleasure. He had taken lodgings
in Bath for a season, he said, and called at once to pay his respects
to me. His tone was so candid--in truth, I am the simplest of men, very
easily gulled--and his stroke so bold, that I did not for one moment
suspect him; and, to my poignant regret--though in the humblest spirit
I have shown myself eager to atone--that very evening I had the shame of
presenting him to yourself.”

“The shame, sir!”

“Have patience, pray, madam. Ay, the shame! You know what figure he hath
cut in Bath since that evening. All ran merrily with him until several
days ago Captain Badger denounced him as an impostor, vowing that
Chateaurien was nothing.”

“Pardon,” interrupted M. Beaucaire. “‘Castle Nowhere’ would have been so
much better. Why did you not make him say it that way, monsieur?”

Lady Mary started; she was looking at the Duke, and her face was white.
He continued: “Poor Captain Badger was stabbed that same day.--”

“Most befitting poor Captain Badger,” muttered Molyneux.

“----And his adversary had the marvelous insolence to declare that he
fought in my quarrel! This afternoon the wounded man sent for me, and
imparted a very horrifying intelligence. He had discovered a lackey whom
he had seen waiting upon Beaucaire in attendance at the door of
this Chateaurien’s lodging. Beaucaire had disappeared the day before
Chateaurien’s arrival. Captain Badger looked closely at Chateaurien at
their next meeting, and identified him with the missing Beaucaire beyond
the faintest doubt. Overcome with indignation, he immediately proclaimed
the impostor. Out of regard for me, he did not charge him with being
Beaucaire; the poor soul was unwilling to put upon me the humiliation of
having introduced a barber; but the secret weighed upon him till he sent
for me and put everything in my hands. I accepted the odium; thinking
only of atonement. I went to Sir John Wimpledon’s. I took poor Sir
Hugh, there, and these other gentlemen aside, and told them my news. We
narrowly observed this man, and were shocked at our simplicity in not
having discovered him before. These are men of honor and cool judgment,
madam. Mr. Molyneux had acted for him in the affair of Captain Badger,
and was strongly prejudiced in his favor; but Mr. Molyneux, Sir Hugh,
Mr. Bantison, every one of them, in short, recognized him. In spite of
his smooth face and his light hair, the adventurer Beaucaire was
writ upon him amazing plain. Look at him, madam, if he will dare the
inspection. You saw this Beaucaire well, the day of his expulsion from
the rooms. Is not this he?”

M. Beaucaire stepped close to her. Her pale face twitched.

“Look!” he said.

“Oh, oh!” she whispered with a dry throat, and fell back in the
carriage.

“Is it so?” cried the Duke.

“I do not know.--I--cannot tell.”

“One moment more. I begged these gentlemen to allow me to wipe out the
insult I had unhappily offered to Bath, but particularly to you. They
agreed not to forestall me or to interfere. I left Sir John Wimpledon’s
early, and arranged to give the sorry rascal a lashing under your own
eyes, a satisfaction due the lady into whose presence he had dared to
force himself.”

“‘Noblesse oblige’?” said M. Beaucaire in a tone of gentle inquiry.

“And now, madam,” said the Duke, “I will detain you not one second
longer. I plead the good purpose of my intentions, begging you to
believe that the desire to avenge a hateful outrage, next to the wish to
serve you, forms the dearest motive in the heart of Winterset.”

“Bravo!” cried Beaucaire softly.

Lady Mary leaned toward him, a thriving terror in her eyes. “It is
false?” she faltered.

“Monsieur should not have been born so high. He could have made little
book’.”

“You mean it is false?” she cried breathlessly.

“‘Od’s blood, is she not convinced?” broke out Mr. Bantison. “Fellow,
were you not the ambassador’s barber?”

“It is all false?” she whispered.

“The mos’ fine art, mademoiselle. How long you think it take M. de
Winterset to learn that speech after he write it out? It is a mix of
what is true and the mos’ chaste art. Monsieur has become a man of
letters. Perhaps he may enjoy that more than the wars. Ha, ha!”

Mr. Bantison burst into a roar of laughter. “Do French gentlemen
fight lackeys? Ho, ho, ho! A pretty country! We English do as was done
to-night, have our servants beat them.”

“And attend ourselves,” added M. Beaucaire, looking at the Duke,
“somewhat in the background? But, pardon,” he mocked, “that remind’ me.
Francois, return to Mr. Bantison and these gentlemen their weapons.”

“Will you answer a question?” said Molyneux mildly.

“Oh, with pleasure, monsieur.”

“Were you ever a barber?”

“No, monsieur,” laughed the young man.

“Pah!” exclaimed Bantison. “Let me question him. Now, fellow, a
confession may save you from jail. Do you deny you are Beaucaire?”

“Deny to a such judge?”

“Ha!” said Bantison. “What more do you want, Molyneux? Fellow, do you
deny that you came to London in the ambassador’s suite?”

“No, I do not deny.”

“He admits it! Didn’t you come as his barber?”

“Yes, my frien’, as his barber.” Lady Mary cried out faintly, and,
shuddering, put both hands over her eyes.

“I’m sorry,” said Molyneux. “You fight like a gentleman.”

“I thank you, monsieur.”

“You called yourself Beaucaire?”

“Yes, monsieur.” He was swaying to and fro; his servants ran to support
him.

“I wish--” continued Molyneux, hesitating. “Evil take me!--but I’m
sorry you’re hurt.”

“Assist Sir Hugh into my carriage,” said Lady Mary.

“Farewell, mademoiselle!” M. Beaucaire’s voice was very faint. His eyes
were fixed upon her face. She did not look toward him.

They were propping Sir Hugh on the cushions. The Duke rode up close to
Beaucaire, but Francois seized his bridle fiercely, and forced the horse
back on its haunches.

“The man’s servants worship him,” said Molyneux.

“Curse your insolence!” exclaimed the Duke. “How much am I to bear from
this varlet and his varlets? Beaucaire, if you have not left Bath by
to-morrow noon, you will be clapped into jail, and the lashing you
escaped to-night shall be given you thrice tenfold!”

“I shall be-in the--Assemily--Room’ at nine--o’clock, one week
--from--to-night,” answered the young man, smiling jauntily, though
his lips were colorless. The words cost him nearly all his breath and
strength. “You mus’ keep--in the--backgroun’, monsieur. Ha, ha!” The
door of the coach closed with a slam.

“Mademoiselle--fare--well!”

“Drive on!” said Lady Mary.

M. Beaucaire followed the carriage with his eyes. As the noise of the
wheels and the hoof-beats of the accompanying cavalcade grew fainter in
the distance, the handkerchief he had held against his side dropped into
the white dust, a heavy red splotch.

“Only--roses,” he gasped, and fell back in the arms of his servants.


Chapter Five


Beau Nash stood at the door of the rooms, smiling blandly upon a dainty
throng in the pink of its finery and gay furbelows. The great exquisite
bent his body constantly in a series of consummately adjusted bows:
before a great dowager, seeming to sweep the floor in august deference;
somewhat stately to the young bucks; greeting the wits with gracious
friendliness and a twinkle of raillery; inclining with fatherly
gallantry before the beauties; the degree of his inclination measured
the altitude of the recipient as accurately as a nicely calculated
sand-glass measures the hours.

The King of Bath was happy, for wit, beauty, fashion--to speak more
concretely: nobles, belles, gamesters, beaux, statesmen, and poets
--made fairyland (or opera bouffe, at least) in his dominions; play ran
higher and higher, and Mr. Nash’s coffers filled up with gold. To
crown his pleasure, a prince of the French blood, the young Comte de
Beaujolais, just arrived from Paris, had reached Bath at noon in state,
accompanied by the Marquis de Mirepoix, the ambassador of Louis XV. The
Beau dearly prized the society of the lofty, and the present visit was
an honor to Bath: hence to the Master of Ceremonies. What was better,
there would be some profitable hours with the cards and dice. So it was
that Mr. Nash smiled never more benignly than on that bright evening.
The rooms rang with the silvery voices of women and delightful laughter,
while the fiddles went merrily, their melodies chiming sweetly with the
joyance of his mood.

The skill and brazen effrontery of the ambassador’s scoundrelly servant
in passing himself off for a man of condition formed the point of
departure for every conversation. It was discovered that there were but
three persons present who had not suspected him from the first; and, by
a singular paradox, the most astute of all proved to be old Mr. Bicksit,
the traveler, once a visitor at Chateaurien; for he, according to
report, had by a coup of diplomacy entrapped the impostor into an
admission that there was no such place. However, like poor Captain
Badger, the worthy old man had held his peace out of regard for the Duke
of Winterset. This nobleman, heretofore secretly disliked, suspected
of irregular devices at play, and never admired, had won admiration and
popularity by his remorse for the mistake, and by the modesty of his
attitude in endeavoring to atone for it, without presuming upon the
privilege of his rank to laugh at the indignation of society; an action
the more praiseworthy because his exposure of the impostor entailed the
disclosure of his own culpability in having stood the villain’s sponsor.
To-night, the happy gentleman, with Lady Mary Carlisle upon his arm,
went grandly about the rooms, sowing and reaping a harvest of smiles.
‘Twas said work would be begun at once to rebuild the Duke’s country
seat, while several ruined Jews might be paid out of prison. People
gazing on the beauty and the stately but modest hero by her side, said
they would make a noble pair. She had long been distinguished by his
attentions, and he had come brilliantly out of the episode of the
Frenchman, who had been his only real rival. Wherever they went, there
arose a buzz of pleasing gossip and adulation. Mr. Nash, seeing them
near him, came forward with greetings. A word on the side passed between
the nobleman and the exquisite.

“I had news of the rascal tonight,” whispered Nash. “He lay at a farm
till yesterday, when he disappeared; his ruffians, too.”

“You have arranged?” asked the Duke.

“Fourteen bailiffs are watching without. He could not come within
gunshot. If they clap eyes on him, they will hustle him to jail, and his
cutthroats shall not avail him a hair’s weight. The impertinent swore
he’d be here by nine, did he?”

“He said so; and ‘tis a rash dog, sir.”

“It is just nine now.”

“Send out to see if they have taken him.”

“Gladly.”

The Beau beckoned an attendant, and whispered in his ear.

Many of the crowd had edged up to the two gentlemen with apparent
carelessness, to overhear their conversation. Those who did overhear
repeated it in covert asides, and this circulating undertone, confirming
a vague rumor that Beaucaire would attempt the entrance that night, lent
a pleasurable color of excitement to the evening. The French prince, the
ambassador, and their suites were announced. Polite as the assembly
was, it was also curious, and there occurred a mannerly rush to see the
newcomers. Lady Mary, already pale, grew whiter as the throng closed
round her; she looked up pathetically at the Duke, who lost no time in
extricating her from the pressure.

“Wait here,” he said; “I will fetch you a glass of negus,” and
disappeared. He had not thought to bring a chair, and she, looking about
with an increasing faintness and finding none, saw that she was standing
by the door of a small side-room. The crowd swerved back for the passage
of the legate of France, and pressed upon her. She opened the door, and
went in.

The room was empty save for two gentlemen, who were quietly playing
cards at a table. They looked up as she entered. They were M. Beaucaire
and Mr. Molyneux.

She uttered a quick cry and leaned against the wall, her hand to her
breast. Beaucaire, though white and weak, had brought her a chair before
Molyneux could stir.

“Mademoiselle--”

“Do not touch me!” she said, with such frozen abhorrence in her voice
that he stopped short. “Mr. Molyneux, you seek strange company!”

“Madam,” replied Molyneux, bowing deeply, as much to Beaucaire as to
herself, “I am honored by the presence of both of you.

“Oh, are you mad!” she exclaimed, contemptuously.

“This gentleman has exalted me with his confidence, madam,” he replied.

“Will you add your ruin to the scandal of this fellow’s presence here?
How he obtained entrance--”

“Pardon, mademoiselle,” interrupted Beaucaire. “Did I not say I should
come? M. Molyneux was so obliging as to answer for me to the fourteen
frien’s of M. de Winterset and Meestaire Nash.”

“Do you not know,” she turned vehemently upon Molyneux, “that he will be
removed the moment I leave this room? Do you wish to be dragged out
with him? For your sake, sir, because I have always thought you a man
of heart, I give you a chance to save yourself from disgrace--and--your
companion from jail. Let him slip out by some retired way, and you
may give me your arm and we will enter the next room as if nothing had
happened. Come, sir--”

“Mademoiselle--”

“Mr. Molyneux, I desire to hear nothing from your companion. Had I not
seen you at cards with him I should have supposed him in attendance as
your lackey. Do you desire to take advantage of my offer, sir?”

“Mademoiselle, I could not tell you, on that night--”

“You may inform your high-born friend, Mr. Molyneux, that I heard
everything he had to say; that my pride once had the pleasure of
listening to his high-born confession!”

“Ah, it is gentle to taunt one with his birth, mademoiselle? Ah, no!
There is a man in my country who say strange things of that--that a man
is not his father, but himself.”

“You may inform your friend, Mr. Molyneux, that he had a chance to
defend himself against accusation; that he said all--”

“That I did say all I could have strength to say. Mademoiselle, you did
not see--as it was right--that I had been stung by a big wasp. It was
nothing, a scratch; but, mademoiselle, the sky went round and the moon
dance’ on the earth. I could not wish that big wasp to see he had stung
me; so I mus’ only say what I can have strength for, and stand straight
till he is gone. Beside’, there are other rizzons. Ah, you mus’ belief!
My Molyneux I sen’ for, and tell him all, because he show courtesy
to the yo’ng Frenchman, and I can trus’ him. I trus’ you,
mademoiselle--long ago--and would have tol’ you ev’rything, excep’ jus’
because--well, for the romance, the fon! You belief? It is so clearly
so; you do belief, mademoiselle?”

She did not even look at him. M. Beaucaire lifted his hand appealingly
toward her. “Can there be no faith in--in--he said timidly, and paused.
She was silent, a statue, my Lady Disdain.

“If you had not belief’ me to be an impostor; if I had never said I was
Chateaurien; if I had been jus’ that Monsieur Beaucaire of the story
they tol’ you, but never with the heart of a lackey, an hones’ man, a
man, the man you knew, himself, could you--would you--” He was trying
to speak firmly; yet, as he gazed upon her splendid beauty, he
choked slightly, and fumbled in the lace at his throat with unsteady
fingers.--“Would you--have let me ride by your side in the autumn
moonlight?” Her glance passed by him as it might have passed by a
footman or a piece of furniture. He was dressed magnificently, a
multitude of orders glittering on his breast. Her eye took no knowledge
of him.

“Mademoiselle-I have the honor to ask you: if you had known this
Beaucaire was hones’, though of peasant birth, would you--”

Involuntarily, controlled as her icy presence was, she shuddered. There
was a moment of silence.

“Mr. Molyneux,” said Lady Mary, “in spite of your discourtesy in
allowing a servant to address me, I offer you a last chance to leave
this room undisgraced. Will you give me your arm?”

“Pardon me, madam,” said Mr. Molyneux.

Beaucaire dropped into a chair with his head bent low and his arm
outstretched on the table; his eyes filled slowly in spite of himself,
and two tears rolled down the young man’s cheeks.

“An’ live men are jus’--names!” said M. Beaucaire.



Chapter Six


In the outer room, Winterset, unable to find Lady Mary, and supposing
her to have joined Lady Rellerton, disposed of his negus, then
approached the two visitors to pay his respects to the young prince,
whom he discovered to be a stripling of seventeen, arrogant looking,
but pretty as a girl. Standing beside the Marquis de Mirepoix--a man of
quiet bearing--he was surrounded by a group of the great, among whom Mr.
Nash naturally counted himself. The Beau was felicitating himself that
the foreigners had not arrived a week earlier, in which case he and Bath
would have been detected in a piece of gross ignorance concerning the
French nobility--making much of de Mirepoix’s ex-barber.

“‘Tis a lucky thing that fellow was got out of the way,” he ejaculated,
under cover.

“Thank me for it,” rejoined Winterset.

An attendant begged Mr. Nash’s notice. The head bailiff sent word that
Beaucaire had long since entered the building by a side door. It was
supposed Mr. Nash had known of it, and the Frenchman was not arrested,
as Mr. Molyneux was in his company, and said he would be answerable for
him. Consternation was so plain on the Beau’s trained face that the Duke
leaned toward him anxiously.

“The villain’s in, and Molyneux hath gone mad!”

Mr. Bantison, who had been fiercely elbowing his way toward them, joined
heads with them. “You may well say he is in,” he exclaimed “and if you
want to know where, why, in yonder card-room. I saw him through the
half-open door.”

“What’s to be done?” asked the Beau.

“Send the bailiffs--”

“Fie, fie! A file of bailiffs? The scandal!”

“Then listen to me,” said the Duke. “I’ll select half-a-dozen gentlemen,
explain the matter, and we’ll put him in the center of us and take him
out to the bailiffs. ‘Twill appear nothing. Do you remain here and
keep the attention of Beaujolais and de Mirepoix. Come, Bantison, fetch
Townbrake and Harry Rakell yonder; I’ll bring the others.”

Three minutes later, his Grace of Winterset flung wide the card-room
door, and, after his friends had entered, closed it.

“Ah!” remarked M. Beaucaire quietly. “Six more large men.”

The Duke, seeing Lady Mary, started; but the angry signs of her
interview had not left her face, and reassured him. He offered his hand
to conduct her to the door. “May I have the honor?”

“If this is to be known, ‘twill be better if I leave after; I should be
observed if I went now.”

“As you will, madam,” he answered, not displeased. “And now, you
impudent villain,” he began, turning to M. Beaucaire, but to fall back
astounded. “‘Od’s blood, the dog hath murdered and robbed some royal
prince!” He forgot Lady Mary’s presence in his excitement. “Lay hands on
him!” he shouted. “Tear those orders from him!”

Molyneux threw himself between. “One word!” he cried. “One word before
you offer an outrage you will repent all your lives!”

“Or let M. de Winterset come alone,” laughed M. Beaucaire.

“Do you expect me to fight a cut-throat barber, and with bare hands?”

“I think one does not expec’ monsieur to fight anybody. Would I fight
you, you think? That was why I had my servants, that evening we play.
I would gladly fight almos’ any one in the won’; but I did not wish to
soil my hand with a--”

“Stuff his lying mouth with his orders!” shouted the Duke.

But Molyneux still held the gentlemen back. “One moment,” he cried.

“M. de Winterset,” said Beaucaire, “of what are you afraid? You
calculate well. Beaucaire might have been belief--an impostor that you
yourself expose’? Never! But I was not goin’ reveal that secret. You
have not absolve me of my promise.”

“Tell what you like,” answered the Duke. “Tell all the wild lies
you have time for. You have five minutes to make up your mind to go
quietly.”

“Now you absolve me, then? Ha, ha! Oh, yes! Mademoiselle,” he bowed to
Lady Mary, “I have the honor to reques’ you leave the room. You shall
miss no details if these frien’s of yours kill me, on the honor of a
French gentleman.”

“A French what?” laughed Bantison.

“Do you dare keep up the pretense?” cried Lord Town brake. “Know, you
villain barber, that your master, the Marquis de Mirepoix, is in the
next room.”

Molyneux heaved a great sigh of relief. “Shall I--” He turned to M.
Beaucaire.

The young man laughed, and said: “Tell him come here at once.

“Impudent to the last!” cried Bantison, as Molyneux hurried from the
room.

“Now you goin’ to see M. Beaucaire’s master,” said Beaucaire to Lady
Mary. “‘Tis true what I say, the other night. I cross from Prance in his
suite; my passport say as his barber. Then to pass the ennui of exile, I
come to Bath and play for what one will. It kill the time. But when the
people hear I have been a servant they come only secretly; and there
is one of them--he has absolve’ me of a promise not to speak--of him I
learn something he cannot wish to be tol’. I make some trouble to learn
this thing. Why I should do this? Well--that is my own rizzon. So I make
this man help me in a masque, the unmasking it was, for, as there is no
one to know me, I throw off my black wig and become myself--and so I
am ‘Chateaurien,’ Castle Nowhere. Then this man I use’, this Winterset,
he--”

“I have great need to deny these accusations?” said the Duke.

“Nay,” said Lady Mary wearily.

“Shall I tell you why I mus’ be ‘Victor’ and ‘Beaucaire’ and
‘Chateaurien,’ and not myself?”

“To escape from the bailiffs for debts for razors and soap,” gibed Lord
Townbrake.

“No, monsieur. In France I have got a cousin who is a man with a very
bad temper at some time’, and he will never enjoy his relatives to do
what he does not wish--”

He was interrupted by a loud commotion from without. The door was flung
open, and the young Count of Beaujolais bounded in and threw his arms
about the neck of M. Beaucaire.

“Philippe!” he cried. “My brother, I have come to take you back with
me.”

M. de Mirepoix followed him, bowing as a courtier, in deference; but M.
Beaucaire took both his hands heartily. Molyneux came after, with Mr.
Nash, and closed the door.

“My warmest felicitations,” said the Marquis. “There is no longer need
for your incognito.”

“Thou best of masters!” said Beaucaire, touching him fondly on the
shoulder. “I know. Your courier came safely. And so I am forgiven! But
I forget.” He turned to the lady. She had begun to tremble exceedingly.
“Faires’ of all the English fair,” he said, as the gentlemen bowed low
to her deep courtesy, “I beg the honor to presen’ to Lady Mary Carlisle,
M. le Comte de Beaujolais. M. de Mirepoix has already the honor. Lady
Mary has been very kind to me, my frien’s; you mus’ help me make my
acknowledgment. Mademoiselle and gentlemen, will you give me that favour
to detain you one instan’?”

“Henri,” he turned to the young Beaujolais, “I wish you had shared my
masque--I have been so gay!” The surface of his tone was merry, but
there was an undercurrent, weary--sad, to speak of what was the mood,
not the manner. He made the effect of addressing every one present, but
he looked steadily at Lady Mary. Her eyes were fixed upon him, with a
silent and frightened fascination, and she trembled more and more. “I am
a great actor, Henri. These gentlemen are yet scarce convince’ I am not
a lackey! And I mus’ tell you that I was jus’ now to be expelled for
having been a barber!”

“Oh, no!” the ambassador cried out. “He would not be content with me;
he would wander over a strange country.”

“Ha, ha, my Mirepoix! And what is better, one evening I am oblige’
to fight some frien’s of M. de Winterset there, and some ladies and
cavaliers look on, and they still think me a servant. Oh, I am a great
actor! ‘Tis true there is not a peasant in France who would not have
then known one ‘born’; but they are wonderful, this English people,
holding by an idea once it is in their heads--a mos’ worthy quality. But
my good Molyneux here, he had speak to me with courtesy, jus’ because
I am a man an’ jus’ because he is always kind. (I have learn’ that
his great-grandfather was a Frenchman.) So I sen’ to him and tell him
ev’rything, and he gain admittance for me here to-night to await my
frien’s.

“I was speaking to messieurs about my cousin, who will meddle in the
affair’ of his relatives. Well, that gentleman, he make a marriage for
me with a good and accomplish’ lady, very noble and very beautiful--and
amiable.” (The young count at his elbow started slightly at this, but
immediately appeared to wrap himself in a mantle of solemn thought.)
“Unfortunately, when my cousin arrange’ so, I was a dolt, a little
blockhead; I swear to marry for myself and when I please, or never if
I like. That lady is all things charming and gentle, and, in truth, she
is--very much attach’ to me--why should I not say it? I am so proud of
it. She is very faithful and forgiving and sweet; she would be the
same, I think, if I--were even--a lackey. But I? I was a dolt, a little
unsensible brute; I did not value such thing’ then; I was too yo’ng,
las’ June. So I say to my cousin, ‘No, I make my own choosing!’ ‘Little
fool,’ he answer, ‘she is the one for you. Am I not wiser than you?’ And
he was very angry, and, as he has influence in France, word come’ that
he will get me put in Vincennes, so I mus’ run away quick till his anger
is gone. My good frien’ Mirepoix is jus’ leaving for London; he take’
many risk’ for my sake; his hairdresser die before he start’, so I
travel as that poor barber. But my cousin is a man to be afraid of when
he is angry, even in England, and I mus’ not get my Mirepoix in trouble.
I mus’ not be discover’ till my cousin is ready to laugh about it all
and make it a joke. And there may be spies; so I change my name again,
and come to Bath to amuse my retreat with a little gaming--I am always
fond of that. But three day’ ago M. le Marquis send me a courier to say
that my brother, who know where I had run away, is come from France to
say that my cousin is appease’; he need me for his little theatre, the
play cannot go on. I do not need to espouse mademoiselle. All shall be
forgiven if I return, and my brother and M. de Mirepoix will meet me in
Bath to felicitate.

“There is one more thing to say, that is all. I have said I learn’ a
secret, and use it to make a man introduce me if I will not tell. He has
absolve’ me of that promise. My frien’s, I had not the wish to ruin that
man. I was not receive’; Meestaire Nash had reboff me; I had no other
way excep’ to use this fellow. So I say, ‘Take me to Lady Malbourne’s
ball as “Chateaurien.”’ I throw off my wig, and shave, and behol’, I am
M. le Duc de Castle Nowhere. Ha, ha! You see?”

The young man’s manner suddenly changed. He became haughty, menacing.
He stretched out his arm, and pointed at Winterset. “Now I am no
‘Beaucaire,’ messieurs. I am a French gentleman. The man who introduce’
me at the price of his honor, and then betray’ me to redeem it, is that
coward, that card-cheat there!”

Winterset made a horrible effort to laugh. The gentlemen who surrounded
him fell away as from pestilence. “A French gentleman!” he sneered
savagely, and yet fearfully. “I don’t know who you are. Hide behind as
many toys and ribbons as you like; I’ll know the name of the man who
dares bring such a charge!”

“Sir!” cried de Mirepoix sharply, advancing a step towards him; but he
checked himself at once. He made a low bow of state, first to the young
Frenchman, then to Lady Mary and the company. “Permit me, Lady Mary
and gentlemen,” he said, “to assume the honor of presenting you to His
Highness, Prince Louis-Philippe de Valois, Duke of Orleans, Duke of
Chartres, Duke of Nemours, Duke of Montpeti’sier, First Prince of
the Blood Royal, First Peer of France, Lieutenant-General of French
Infantry, Governor of Dauphine, Knight of the Golden Fleece, Grand
Master of the Order of Notre Dame, of Mount Carmel, and of St. Lazarus
in Jerusalem; and cousin to His most Christian Majesty, Louis the
Fifteenth, King of France.”

“Those are a few of my brother’s names,” whispered Henri of Beaujolais
to Molyneux. “Old Mirepoix has the long breath, but it take’ a strong
man two day’ to say all of them. I can suppose this Winterset know’ now
who bring the charge!”

“Castle Nowhere!” gasped Beau Nash, falling back upon the burly prop of
Mr. Bantison’s shoulder.

“The Duke of Orleans will receive a message from me within the hour!”
 said Winterset, as he made his way to the door. His face was black with
rage and shame.

“I tol’ you that I would not soil my hand with you,” answered the young
man. “If you send a message no gentleman will bring it. Whoever shall
bear it will receive a little beating from Francois.”

He stepped to Lady Mary’s side. Her head was bent low, her face averted.
She seemed to breathe with difficulty, and leaned heavily upon a chair.
“Monseigneur,” she faltered in a half whisper, “can you--forgive me? It
is a bitter--mistake-I have made. Forgive.”

“Forgive?” he answered, and his voice was as broken as hers; but he went
on, more firmly: “It is--nothing--less than nothing. There is--only jus’
one--in the--whole worl’ who would not have treat’ me the way that you
treat’ me. It is to her that I am goin’ to make reparation. You know
something, Henri? I am not goin’ back only because the king forgive’
me. I am goin’ to please him; I am goin’ to espouse mademoiselle, our
cousin. My frien’s, I ask your felicitations.”

“And the king does not compel him!” exclaimed young Henri.

“Henri, you want to fight me?” cried his brother sharply. “Don’ you
think the King of France is a wiser man than me?”

He offered his hand to Lady Mary. “Mademoiselle is fatigue’. Will she
honor me?”

He walked with her to the door. Her hand fluttering faintly in his.
From somewhere about the garments of one of them a little cloud of faded
rose-leaves fell, and lay strewn on the floor behind them. He opened the
door, and the lights shone on a multitude of eager faces turned toward
it. There was a great hum of voices, and, over all, the fiddles wove a
wandering air, a sweet French song of the voyageur.

He bowed very low, as, with fixed and glistening eyes, Lady Mary
Carlisle, the Beauty of Bath, passed slowly by him and went out of the
room.

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING


The eyes of the man who had looked in upon a scene inordinately,
fantastically brilliant, underwent, after those first few moments of
comparative indifference, a curious transformation. He was contemplating
one of the sights of the world. Crowded around the two roulette tables,
promenading or lounging on the heavily cushioned divans against the
wall, he took note of a conglomeration of people representing, perhaps,
every grade of society, every nationality of importance, yet with a
curious common likeness by reason of their tribute paid to fashion. He
glanced unmoved at a beautiful Englishwoman who was a duchess but looked
otherwise; at an equally beautiful Frenchwoman, who looked like a
duchess but was--otherwise. On every side of him were women gowned by
the great artists of the day, women like flowers, all perfume and
softness and colour. His eyes passed them over almost carelessly. A
little tired with many weeks' travel in countries where the luxuries of
life were few, his senses were dulled to the magnificence of the scene,
his pulses as yet had not responded to its charm and wonder. And then
the change came. He saw a woman standing almost exactly opposite to him
at the nearest roulette table, and he gave a noticeable start. For a
moment his pale, expressionless face was transformed, his secret was at
any one's mercy. That, however, was the affair of an instant only. He
was used to shocks and he survived this one. He moved a little on one
side from his prominent place in the centre of the wide-flung doorway.
He stood by one of the divans and watched.

She was tall and fair and slight. She wore a high-necked gown of
shimmering grey, a black hat, under which her many coils of hair shone
like gold, and a necklace of pearls around her throat, pearls on which
his eyes had rested with a curious expression. She played, unlike many
of her neighbours, with restraint, yet with interest, almost enthusiasm.
There was none of the strain of the gambler about her smooth, beautiful
face. Her delicately curved lips were free from the grim lines of
concentrated acquisitiveness. She was thirty-two years old but she
looked much younger as she stood there, her lips a little parted in a
pleased smile of anticipation. She was leaning a little over the table
and her eyes were fixed with humorous intentness upon the spinning
wheel. Even amongst that crowd of beautiful women she possessed a
certain individual distinction. She not only looked what she was--an
Englishwoman of good birth--but there was a certain delicate aloofness
about her expression and bearing which gave an added charm to a
personality which seemed to combine the two extremes of provocativeness
and reserve. One would have hesitated to address to her even the chance
remarks which pass so easily between strangers around the tables.

"Violet here!" the man murmured under his breath. "Violet!"

There was tragedy in the whisper, a gleam of something like tragedy,
too, in the look which passed between the man and the woman a few
moments later. With her hands full of plaques which she had just won,
she raised her eyes at last from the board. The smile upon her lips was
the delighted smile of a girl. And then, as she was in the act of
sweeping her winnings into her gold bag, she saw the man opposite. The
smile seemed to die from her lips; it appeared, indeed, to pass with all
else of expression from her face. The plaques dropped one by one through
her fingers, into the satchel. Her eyes remained fixed upon him as
though she were looking upon a ghost. The seconds seemed drawn out into
a grim hiatus of time. The croupier's voice, the muttered imprecation of
a loser by her side, the necessity of making some slight movement in
order to allow the passage of an arm from some one in search of
change--some such trifle at last brought her back from the shadows. Her
expression became at once more normal. She did not remove her eyes but
she very slightly inclined her head towards the man. He, in return,
bowed very gravely and without a smile.

The table in front of her was cleared now. People were beginning to
consider their next coup. The voice of the croupier, with his
parrot-like cry, travelled down the board.

_"Faites vos jeux, mesdames et messieurs."_

The woman made no effort to stake. After a moment's hesitation she
yielded up her place, and moving backwards, seated herself upon an empty
divan. Rapidly the thoughts began to form themselves in her mind. Her
delicate eyebrows drew closer together in a distinct frown. After that
first shock, that queer turmoil of feeling, beyond analysis, yet having
within it some entirely unexpected constituent, she found herself
disposed to be angry. The sensation had not subsided when a moment or
two later she was conscious that the man whose coming had proved so
disturbing was standing before her.

"Good afternoon," he said, a little stiffly.

She raised her eyes. The frown was still upon her forehead, although to
a certain extent it was contradicted by a slight tremulousness of the
lips.

"Good afternoon, Henry!"

For some reason or other, further speech seemed to him a difficult
matter. He moved towards the vacant place.

"If you have no objection," he observed, as he seated himself.

She unfurled her fan--an ancient but wonderful weapon of defence. It
gave her a brief respite. Then she looked at him calmly.

"Of all places in the world," she murmured, "to meet you here!"

"Is it so extraordinary?"

"I find it so," she admitted. "You don't at all fit in, you know. A
scene like this," she added, glancing around, "would scarcely ever be
likely to attract you for its own sake, would it?"

"It doesn't particularly," he admitted.

"Then why have you come?"

He remained silent. The frown upon her forehead deepened.

"Perhaps," she went on coldly, "I can help you with your reply. You have
come because you are not satisfied with the reports of the private
detective whom you have engaged to watch me. You have come to supplement
them by your own investigation."

His frown matched hers. The coldness of his tone was rendered even more
bitter by its note of anger.

"I am surprised that you should have thought me capable of such an
action," he declared. "All I can say is that it is thoroughly in keeping
with your other suspicions of me, and that I find it absolutely
unworthy."

She laughed a little incredulously, not altogether naturally.

"My dear Henry," she protested, "I cannot flatter myself that there is
any other person in the world sufficiently interested in my movements to
have me watched."

"Are you really under the impression that that is the case?" he enquired
grimly.

"It isn't a matter of impression at all," she retorted. "It is the
truth. I was followed from London, I was watched at Cannes, I am watched
here day by day--by a little man in a brown suit and a Homburg hat, and
with a habit of lounging. He lounges under my windows, he is probably
lounging across the way now. He has lounged within fifty yards of me for
the last three weeks, and to tell you the truth I am tired of him.
Couldn't I have a week's holiday? I'll keep a diary and tell you all
that you want to know."

"Is it sufficient," he asked, "for me to assure you, upon my word of
honour, that I know nothing of this?"

She was somewhat startled. She turned and looked at him. His tone was
convincing. He had not the face of a man whose word of honour was a
negligible thing.

"But, Henry," she protested, "I tell you that there is no doubt about
the matter. I am watched day and night--I, an insignificant person whose
doings can be of no possible interest save to you and you only."

The man did not at once reply. His thoughts seemed to have wandered off
for a moment. When he spoke again, his tone had lost its note of
resentment.

"I do not blame you for your suspicion," he said calmly, "although I can
assure you that I have never had any idea of having you watched. It is
not a course which could possibly have suggested itself to me, even in
my most unhappy moments."

She was puzzled--at once puzzled and interested.

"I am so glad to hear this," she said, "and of course I believe you, but
there the fact is. I think that you will agree with me that it is
curious."

"Isn't it possible," he ventured to suggest, "that it is your companions
who are the object of this man's vigilance? You are not, I presume,
alone here?"

She eyed him a little defiantly.

"I am here," she announced, "with Mr. and Mrs. Draconmeyer."

He heard her without any change of expression, but somehow or other it
was easy to see that her news, although more than half expected, had
stung him.

"Mr. and Mrs. Draconmeyer," he repeated, with slight emphasis on the
latter portion of the sentence.

"Certainly! I am sorry," she went on, a moment late, "that my companions
do not meet with your approval. That, however, I could scarcely expect,
considering--"

"Considering what?" he insisted, watching her steadfastly.

"Considering all things," she replied, after a moment's pause.

"Mrs. Draconmeyer is still an invalid?"

"She is still an invalid."

The slightly satirical note in his question seemed to provoke a certain
defiance in her manner as she turned a little sideways towards him. She
moved her fan slowly backwards and forwards, her head was thrown back,
her manner was almost belligerent. He took up the challenge. He asked
her in plain words the question which his eyes had already demanded.

"I find myself constrained to ask you," he said, in a studiously
measured tone, "by what means you became possessed of the pearls you are
wearing? I do not seem to remember them as your property."

Her eyes flashed.

"Don't you think," she returned, "that you are a little outstepping your
privileges?"

"Not in the least," he declared. "You are my wife, and although you have
defied me in a certain matter, you are still subject to my authority. I
see you wearing jewels in public of which you were certainly not
possessed a few months ago, and which neither your fortune nor mine--"

"Let me set your mind at rest," she interrupted icily. "The pearls are
not mine. They belong to Mrs. Draconmeyer."

"Mrs. Draconmeyer!"

"I am wearing them," she continued, "at Linda's special request. She is
too unwell to appear in public and she is very seldom able to wear any
of her wonderful jewelry. It gives her pleasure to see them sometimes
upon other people."

He remained quite silent for several moments. He was, in reality,
passionately angry. Self-restraint, however, had become such a habit of
his that there were no indications of his condition save in the slight
twitchings of his long fingers and a tightening at the corners of his
lips. She, however, recognised the symptoms without difficulty.

"Since you defy my authority," he said, "may I ask whether my wishes
have any weight with you?"

"That depends," she replied.

"It is my earnest wish," he went on, "that you do not wear another
woman's jewelry, either in public or privately."

She appeared to reflect for a moment. In effect she was struggling
against a conviction that his request was reasonable.

"I am sorry," she said at last. "I see no harm whatever in my doing so
in this particular instance. It gives great pleasure to poor Mrs.
Draconmeyer to see her jewels and admire them, even if she is unable to
wear them herself. It gives me an intense joy which even a normal man
could scarcely be expected to understand; certainly not you. I am sorry
that I cannot humour you."

He leaned towards her.

"Not if I beg you?"

She looked at him fixedly, looked at him as though she searched for
something in his face, or was pondering over something in his tone. It
was a moment which might have meant much. If she could have seen into
his heart and understood the fierce jealousy which prompted his words,
it might have meant a very great deal. As it was, her contemplation
appeared to be unsatisfactory.

"I am sorry that you should lay so much stress upon so small a thing,"
she said. "You were always unreasonable. Your present request is another
instance of it. I was enjoying myself very much indeed until you came,
and now you wish to deprive me of one of my chief pleasures. I cannot
humour you."

He turned away. Even then chance might have intervened. The moment her
words had been spoken she realised a certain injustice in them, realised
a little, perhaps, the point of view of this man who was still her
husband. She watched him almost eagerly, hoping to find some sign in his
face that it was not only his stubborn pride which spoke. She failed,
however. He was one of those men who know too well how to wear the mask.

"May I ask where you are staying here?" he enquired presently.

"At the Hotel de Paris."

"It is unfortunate," he observed. "I will move my quarters to-morrow."

She shrugged her shoulders.

"Monte Carlo is full of hotels," she remarked, "but it seems a pity that
you should move. The place is large enough for both of us."

"It is not long," he retorted, "since you found London itself too small.
I should be very sorry to spoil your holiday."

Her eyes seemed to dwell for a moment upon the Spanish dancer who sat at
the table opposite them, a woman whose name had once been a household
word, dethroned now, yet still insistent for notice and homage;
commanding them, even, with the wreck of her beauty and the splendour of
her clothes.

"It seems a queer place, this," she observed, "for domestic
disagreements. Let us try to avoid disputable subjects. Shall I be too
inquisitive if I ask you once more what in the name of all that is
unsuitable brought you to such a place as Monte Carlo?"

He fenced with her question. Perhaps he resented the slightly ironical
note in her tone. Perhaps there were other reasons.

"Why should I not come to Monte Carlo?" he enquired. "Parliament is not
particularly amusing when one is in opposition, and I do not hunt. The
whole world amuses itself here."

"But not you," she replied quickly. "I know you better than that, my
dear Henry. There is nothing here or in this atmosphere which could
possibly attract you for long. There is no work for you to do--work, the
very breath of your body; work, the one thing you live for and were made
for; work, you man of sawdust and red tape."

"Am I as bad as all that?" he asked quietly.

She fingered her pearls for a moment.

"Perhaps I haven't the right to complain," she acknowledged. "I have
gone my own way always. But if one is permitted to look for a moment
into the past, can you tell me a single hour when work was not the
prominent thought in your brain, the idol before which you worshipped?
Why, even our honeymoon was spent canvassing!"

"The election was an unexpected one," he reminded her.

"It would have been the same thing," she declared. "The only literature
which you really understand is a Blue Book, and the only music you hear
is the chiming of Big Ben."

"You speak," he remarked, "as though you resented these things. Yet you
knew before you married me that I had ambitions, that I did not propose
to lead an idle life."

"Oh, yes, I knew!" she assented drily. "But we are wandering from the
point. I am still wondering what has brought you here. Have you come
direct from England?"

He shook his head.

"I came to-day from Bordighera."

"More and more mysterious," she murmured. "Bordighera, indeed! I thought
you once told me that you hated the Riviera."

"So I do," he agreed.

"And yet you are here?"

"Yet I am here."

"And you have not come to look after me," she went on, "and the mystery
of the little brown man who watches me is still unexplained."

"I know nothing about that person," he asserted, "and I had no idea that
you were here."

"Or you would not have come?" she challenged him.

"Your presence," he retorted, nettled into forgetting himself for a
moment, "would not have altered my plans in the slightest."

"Then you have a reason for coming!" she exclaimed quickly.

He gave no sign of annoyance but his lips were firmly closed. She
watched him steadfastly.

"I wonder at myself no longer," she continued. "I do not think that any
woman in the world could ever live with a man to whom secrecy is as
great a necessity as the very air he breathes. No wonder, my dear Henry,
the politicians speak so well of you, and so confidently of your
brilliant future!"

"I am not aware," he observed calmly, "that I have ever been unduly
secretive so far as you are concerned. During the last few months,
however, of our life together, you must remember that you chose to
receive on terms of friendship a person whom I regard--"

Her eyes suddenly flashed him a warning. He dropped his voice almost to
a whisper. A man was approaching them.

"As an enemy," he concluded, under his breath.




I

BY ACCIDENT OR DESIGN


The newcomer, who had presented himself now before Hunterleys and his
wife, was a man of somewhat unusual appearance. He was tall,
thickly-built, his black beard and closely-cropped hair were streaked
with grey, he wore gold-rimmed spectacles, and he carried his head a
little thrust forward, as though, even with the aid of his glasses, he
was still short-sighted. He had the air of a foreigner, although his
tone, when he spoke, was without accent. He held out his hand a little
tentatively, an action, however, which Hunterleys appeared to ignore.

"My dear Sir Henry!" he exclaimed. "This is a surprise, indeed! Monte
Carlo is absolutely the last place in the world in which I should have
expected to come across you. The Sporting Club, too! Well, well, well!"

Hunterleys, standing easily with his hands behind his back, raised his
eyebrows. The two men were of curiously contrasting types. Hunterleys,
slim and distinguished, had still the frame of an athlete,
notwithstanding his colourless cheeks and the worn lines about his eyes.
He was dressed with extreme simplicity. His deep-set eyes and sensitive
mouth were in marked contrast to the other's coarser mould of features
and rather full lips. Yet there was about both men an air of strength,
strength developed, perhaps, in a different manner, but still an
appreciable quality.

"They say that the whole world is here," Hunterleys remarked. "Why may
not I form a harmless unit of it?"

"Why not, indeed?" Draconmeyer assented heartily. "The most serious of
us must have our frivolous moments. I hope that you will dine with us
to-night? We shall be quite alone."

Hunterleys shook his head.

"Thank you," he said, "I have another engagement pending."

Mr. Draconmeyer was filled with polite regrets, but he did not renew the
invitation.

"When did you arrive?" he asked.

"A few hours ago," Hunterleys replied.

"By the Luxe? How strange! I went down to meet it."

"I came from the other side."

"Ah!"

Mr. Draconmeyer's ejaculation was interrogative, Hunterleys hesitated
for a moment. Then he continued with a little shrug of the shoulders.

"I have been staying at San Remo and Bordighera."

Mr. Draconmeyer was much interested.

"So that is where you have been burying yourself," he remarked. "I saw
from the papers that you had accepted a six months' pair. Surely,
though, you don't find the Italian Riviera very amusing?"

"I am abroad for a rest," Hunterleys replied.

Mr. Draconmeyer smiled curiously.

"A rest?" he repeated. "That rather belies your reputation, you know.
They say that you are tireless, even when you are out of office."

Hunterleys turned from the speaker towards his wife.

"I have not tempted fortune myself yet," he observed. "I think that I
shall have a look into the baccarat room. Do you care to stroll that
way?"

Lady Hunterleys rose at once to her feet. Mr. Draconmeyer, however,
intervened. He laid his fingers upon Hunterleys' arm.

"Sir Henry," he begged, "our meeting has been quite unexpected, but in a
sense it is opportune. Will you be good enough to give me five minutes'
conversation?"

"With pleasure," Hunterleys replied. "My time is quite at your disposal,
if you have anything to say."

Draconmeyer led the way out of the crowded room, along the passage and
into the little bar. They found a quiet corner and two easy-chairs.
Draconmeyer gave an order to a waiter. For a few moments their
conversation was conventional.

"I trust that you think your wife looking better for the change?"
Draconmeyer began. "Her companionship is a source of great pleasure and
relief to my poor wife."

"Does the conversation you wish to have with me refer to Lady
Hunterleys?" her husband asked quietly. "If so, I should like to say a
few preliminary words which would, I hope, place the matter at once
beyond the possibility of any misunderstanding."

Draconmeyer moved a little uneasily in his place.

"I have other things to say," he declared, "yet I would gladly hear what
is in your mind at the present moment. You do not, I fear, approve of
this friendship between my wife and Lady Hunterleys."

Hunterleys was uncompromising, almost curt.

"I do not," he agreed. "It is probably no secret to you that my wife and
I are temporarily estranged," he continued. "The chief reason for that
estrangement is that I forbade her your house or your acquaintance."

Draconmeyer was a little taken back. Such extreme directness of speech
was difficult to deal with.

"My dear Sir Henry," he protested, "you distress me. I do not understand
your attitude in this matter at all."

"There is no necessity for you to understand it," Hunterleys retorted
coolly. "I claim the right to regulate my wife's visiting list. She
denies that right."

"Apart from the question of marital control," Mr. Draconmeyer persisted,
"will you tell me why you consider my wife and myself unfit persons to
find a place amongst Lady Hunterleys' acquaintances?"

"No man is bound to give the reason for his dislikes," Hunterleys
replied. "Of your wife I know nothing. Nobody does. I have every
sympathy with her unfortunate condition, and that is all. You personally
I dislike. I dislike my wife to be seen with you, I dislike having her
name associated with yours in any manner whatsoever. I dislike sitting
with you here myself. I only hope that the five minutes' conversation
which you have asked for will not be exceeded."

Mr. Draconmeyer had the air of a benevolent person who is deeply pained.

"Sir Henry," he sighed, "it is not possible for me to disregard such
plain speaking. Forgive me if I am a little taken aback by it. You are
known to be a very skilful diplomatist and you have many weapons in your
armoury. One scarcely expected, however--one's breath is a little taken
away by such candour."

"I am not aware," Hunterleys said calmly, "that the question of
diplomacy need come in when one's only idea is to regulate the personal
acquaintances of oneself and one's wife."

Mr. Draconmeyer sat quite still for a moment, stroking his black beard.
His eyes were fixed upon the carpet. He seemed to be struggling with a
problem.

"You have taken the ground from beneath my feet," he declared. "Your
opinion of me is such that I hesitate to proceed at all in the matter
which I desired to discuss with you."

"That," Hunterleys replied, "is entirely for you to decide. I am
perfectly willing to listen to anything you have to say--all the more
ready because now there can be no possibility of any misunderstanding
between us."

"Very well," Mr. Draconmeyer assented, "I will proceed. After all, I am
not sure that the personal element enters into what I was about to say.
I was going to propose not exactly an alliance--that, of course, would
not be possible--but I was certainly going to suggest that you and I
might be of some service to one another."

"In what way?"

"I call myself an Englishman," Mr. Draconmeyer went on. "I have made
large sums of money in England, I have grown to love England and English
ways. Yet I came, as you know, from Berlin. The position which I hold in
your city is still the position of president of the greatest German bank
in the world. It is German finance which I have directed, and with
German money I have made my fortune. To be frank with you, however,
after these many years in London I have grown to feel myself very much
of an Englishman."

Hunterleys was sitting perfectly still. His face was rigid but
expressionless. He was listening intently.

"On the other hand," Mr. Draconmeyer proceeded slowly, "I wish to be
wholly frank with you. At heart I must remain always a German. The
interests of my country must always be paramount. But listen. In Germany
there are, as you know, two parties, and year by year they are drawing
further apart. I will not allude to factions. I will speak broadly.
There is the war party and there is the peace party. I belong to the
peace party. I belong to it as a German, and I belong to it as a devoted
friend of England, and if the threatened conflict between the two should
come, I should take my stand as a peace-loving German-cum-Englishman
against the war party even of my own country."

Hunterleys still made no sign. Yet for one who knew him it was easy to
realise that he was listening and thinking with absorbed interest.

"So far," Draconmeyer pointed out, "I have laid my cards on the table. I
have told you the solemn truth. I regret that it did not occur to me to
do so many months ago in London. Now to proceed. I ask you to emulate my
frankness, and in return I will give you information which should enable
us to work hand in hand for the peace which we both desire."

"You ask me," Hunterleys said thoughtfully, "to be perfectly frank with
you. In what respect? What is it that you wish from me?"

"Not political information," Mr. Draconmeyer declared, his eyes blinking
behind his glasses. "For that I certainly should not come to you. I only
wish to ask you a question, and I must ask it so that we may meet on a
common ground of confidence. Are you here in Monte Carlo to look after
your wife, or in search of change of air and scene? Is that your honest
motive for being here? Or is there any other reason in the world which
has prompted you to come to Monte Carlo during this particular month--I
might almost say this particular week?"

Hunterleys' attitude was that of a man who holds in his hand a puzzle
and is doubtful where to commence in his efforts to solve it.

"Are you not a little mysterious this afternoon, Mr. Draconmeyer?" he
asked coldly. "Or are you trying to incite a supposititious curiosity? I
really cannot see the drift of your question."

"Answer it," Mr. Draconmeyer insisted.

Hunterleys took a cigarette from his case, tapped it upon the table and
lit it in leisurely fashion.

"If you have any idea," he said, "that I came here to confront my wife,
or to interfere in any way with her movements, let me assure you that
you are mistaken. I had no idea that Lady Hunterleys was in Monte Carlo.
I am here because I have a six months' holiday, and a holiday for the
average Englishman between January and April generally means, as you
must be aware, the Riviera. I have tried Bordighera and San Remo. I have
found them, as I no doubt shall find this place, wearisome. In the end I
suppose I shall drift back to London."

Mr. Draconmeyer frowned.

"You left London," he remarked tersely, "on December first. It is to-day
February twentieth. Do you wish me to understand that you have been at
Bordighera and San Remo all that time?"

"How did you know when I left London?" Hunterleys demanded.

Mr. Draconmeyer pursed his lips.

"I heard of your departure from London entirely by accident," he said.
"Your wife, for some reason or other, declined to discuss your
movements. I imagine that she was acting in accordance with your
wishes."

"I see," Hunterleys observed coolly. "And your present anxiety is to
know where I spent the intervening time, and why I am here in Monte
Carlo? Frankly, Mr. Draconmeyer, I look upon this close interest in my
movements as an impertinence. My travels have been of no importance, but
they concern myself only. I have no confidence to offer respecting them.
If I had, it would not be to you that I should unburden myself."

"You suspect me, then? You doubt my integrity?"

"Not at all," Hunterleys assured his questioner. "For anything I know to
the contrary, you are, outside the world of finance, one of the dullest
and most harmless men existing. My own position is simply as I explained
it during the first few sentences we exchanged. I do not like you, I
detest my wife's name being associated with yours, and for that reason,
the less I see of you the better I am pleased."

Mr. Draconmeyer nodded thoughtfully. He was, to all appearance, studying
the pattern of the carpet. For once in his life he was genuinely
puzzled. Was this man by his side merely a jealous husband, or had he
any idea of the greater game which was being played around them? Had he,
by any chance, arrived to take part in it? Was it wise, in any case, to
pursue the subject further? Yet if he abandoned it at this juncture, it
must be with a sense of failure, and failure was a thing to which he was
not accustomed.

"Your frankness," he admitted grimly, "is almost exhilarating. Our
personal relations being so clearly defined, I am inclined to go further
even than I had intended. We cannot now possibly misunderstand one
another. Supposing I were to tell you that your arrival in Monte Carlo,
accidental though it may be, is in a sense opportune; that you may, in a
short time meet here one or two politicians, friends of mine, with whom
an interchange of views might be agreeable? Supposing I were to offer my
services as an intermediary? You would like to bring about better
relations with my country, would you not, Sir Henry? You are admittedly
a statesman and an influential man in your Party. I am only a banker, it
is true, but I have been taken into the confidence of those who direct
the destinies of my country."

Hunterleys' face reflected none of the other's earnestness. He seemed,
indeed, a little bored, and he answered almost irritably.

"I am much obliged to you," he said, "but Monte Carlo seems scarcely the
place to me for political discussions, added to which I have no official
position. I could not receive or exchange confidences. While my Party is
out of power, there is nothing left for us but to mark time. I dare say
you mean well, Mr. Draconmeyer," he added, rising to his feet, "but I am
here to forget politics altogether, if I can. If you will excuse me, I
think I will look in at the baccarat rooms."

He was on the point of departure when through the open doorway which
communicated with the baccarat rooms beyond came a man of sufficiently
arresting personality, a man remarkably fat, with close-cropped grey
hair which stuck up like bristles all over his head; a huge,
clean-shaven face which seemed concentrated at that moment in one
tremendous smile of overwhelming good-humour. He held by the hand a
little French girl, dark, small, looking almost like a marionette in her
slim tailor-made costume. He recognised Draconmeyer with enthusiasm.

"My friend Draconmeyer," he exclaimed, in stentorian tones, "baccarat is
the greatest game in the world. I have won--I, who know nothing about
it, have won a hundred louis. It is amazing! There is no place like this
in the world. We are here to drink a bottle of wine together,
mademoiselle and I, mademoiselle who was at once my instructress and my
mascot. Afterwards we go to the jeweler's. Why not? A fair division of
the spoils--fifty louis for myself, fifty louis for a bracelet for
mademoiselle. And then--"

He broke off suddenly. His gesture was almost dramatic.

"I am forgotten!" he cried, holding out his hand to
Hunterleys,--"forgotten already! Sir Henry, there are many who forget me
as a humble Minister of my master, but there are few who forget me
physically. I am Selingman. We met in Berlin, six years ago. You came
with your great Foreign Secretary."

"I remember you perfectly," Hunterleys assured him, as he submitted to
the newcomer's vigorous handshake. "We shall meet again, I trust."

Selingman thrust his arm through Hunterleys' as though to prevent his
departure.

"You shall not run away!" he declared. "I introduce both of you--Mr.
Draconmeyer, the great Anglo-German banker; Sir Henry Hunterleys, the
English politician--to Mademoiselle Estelle Nipon, of the Opera House.
Now we all know one another. We shall be good friends. We will share
that bottle of champagne."

"One bottle between four!" mademoiselle laughed, poutingly. "And I am
parched! I have taught monsieur baccarat. I am exhausted."

"A magnum!" Selingman ordered in a voice of thunder, shaking his fist at
the startled waiter. "We seat ourselves here at the round table.
Mademoiselle, we will drink champagne together until the eyes of all of
us sparkle as yours do. We will drink champagne until we do not believe
that there is such a thing as losing at games or in life. We will drink
champagne until we all four believe that we have been brought up
together, that we are bosom friends of a lifetime. See, this is how we
will place ourselves. Mademoiselle, if the others make love to you, take
no notice. It is I who have put fifty louis in one pocket for that
bracelet. Do not trust Sir Henry there; he has a reputation."

As usual, the overpowering Selingman had his way. Neither Draconmeyer
nor Hunterleys attempted to escape. They took their places at the table.
They drank champagne and they listened to Selingman. All the time he
talked, save when mademoiselle interrupted him. Seated upon a chair
which seemed absurdly inadequate, his great stomach with its vast
expanse of white waistcoat in full view, his short legs doubled up
beneath him, he beamed upon them all with a smile which never failed.

"It is a wonderful place," he declared, as he lifted his glass for the
fifth time. "We will drink to it, this Monte Carlo. It is here that they
come from all quarters of the world--the ladies who charm away our
hearts," he added, bowing to mademoiselle, "the financiers whose word
can shake the money-markets of the world, and the politicians who
unbend, perhaps, just a little in the sunshine here, however cold and
inflexible they may be under their own austere skies. For the last time,
then--to Monte Carlo! To Monte Carlo, dear mademoiselle!--messieurs!"

[Illustration: "For the last time, then--to Monte Carlo!"]

They drank the toast and a few minutes later Hunterleys slipped away.
The two men looked after him. The smile seemed gradually to leave
Selingman's lips, his face was large and impressive.

"Run and fetch your cloak, dear," he said to the girl.

She obeyed at once. Selingman leaned across the table towards his
companion.

"What does Hunterleys do here?" he asked.

Draconmeyer shook his head.

"Who knows?" he answered. "Perhaps he has come to look after his wife.
He has been to Bordighera and San Remo."

"Is that all he told you of his movements?"

"That is all," Draconmeyer admitted. "He was suspicious. I made no
progress."

"Bordighera and San Remo!" Selingman muttered under his breath. "For a
day, perhaps, or two."

"What do you know about him?" Draconmeyer asked, his eyes suddenly
bright beneath his spectacles. "I have been suspicious ever since I met
him, an hour ago. He left England on December first."

"It is true," Selingman assented. "He crossed to Paris, and--mark the
cunning of it--he returned to England. That same night he travelled to
Germany. We lost him in Vienna and found him again in Sofia. What does
it mean, I wonder? What does it mean?"

"I have been talking to him for twenty minutes in here before you came,"
Draconmeyer said. "I tried to gain his confidence. He told me nothing.
He never even mentioned that journey of his."

Selingman was sitting drumming upon the table with his broad fingertips.

"Sofia!" he murmured. "And now--here! Draconmeyer, there is work before
us. I know men, I tell you. I know Hunterleys. I watched him, I listened
to him in Berlin six years ago. He was with his master then but he had
nothing to learn from him. He is of the stuff diplomats are fashioned
of. He has it in his blood. There is work before us, Draconmeyer."

"If monsieur is ready!" mademoiselle interposed, a little petulantly,
letting the tip of her boa play for a moment on his cheek.

Selingman finished his wine and rose to his feet. Once more the smile
encompassed his face. Of what account, after all, were the wanderings of
this melancholy Englishman! There was mademoiselle's bracelet to be
bought, and perhaps a few flowers. Selingman pulled down his waistcoat
and accepted his grey Homburg hat from the vestiaire. He held
mademoiselle's fingers as they descended the stairs. He looked like a
school-boy of enormous proportions on his way to a feast.

"We drank to Monte Carlo in champagne," he declared, as they turned on
to the terrace and descended the stone steps, "but, dear Estelle, we
drink to it from our hearts with every breath we draw of this wonderful
air, every time our feet touch the buoyant ground. Believe me, little
one, the other things are of no account. The true philosophy of life and
living is here in Monte Carlo. You and I will solve it."




II

A WARNING


Hunterleys dined alone at a small round table, set in a remote corner of
the great restaurant attached to the Hotel de Paris. The scene around
him was full of colour and interest. A scarlet-coated band made
wonderful music. The toilettes of the women who kept passing backwards
and forwards, on their way to the various tables, were marvellous; in
their way unique. The lights and flowers of the room, its appointments
and adornments, all represented the last word in luxury. Everywhere was
colour, everywhere an almost strained attempt to impress upon the
passerby the fact that this was no ordinary holiday resort but the giant
pleasure-ground of all in the world who had money to throw away and the
capacity for enjoyment. Only once a more somber note seemed struck when
Mrs. Draconmeyer, leaning on her husband's arm and accompanied by a
nurse and Lady Hunterleys, passed to their table. Hunterleys' eyes
followed the little party until they had reached their destination and
taken their places. His wife was wearing black and she had discarded the
pearls which had hung around her neck during the afternoon. She wore
only a collar of diamonds, his gift. Her hair was far less elaborately
coiffured and her toilette less magnificent than the toilettes of the
women by whom she was surrounded. Yet as he looked from his corner
across the room at her, Hunterleys realised as he had realised instantly
twelve years ago when he had first met her, that she was incomparable.
There was no other woman in the whole of that great restaurant with her
air of quiet elegance; no other woman so faultless in the smaller
details of her toilette and person. Hunterleys watched with
expressionless face but with anger growing in his heart, as he saw
Draconmeyer bending towards her, accepting her suggestions about the
dinner, laughing when she laughed, watching almost humbly for her
pleasure or displeasure. It was a cursed mischance which had brought him
to Monte Carlo!

Hunterleys hurried over his dinner, and without even going to his room
for a hat or coat, walked across the square in the soft twilight of an
unusually warm February evening and took a table outside the Cafe de
Paris, where he ordered coffee. Around him was a far more cosmopolitan
crowd, increasing every moment in volume. Every language was being
spoken, mostly German. As a rule, such a gathering of people was, in its
way, interesting to Hunterleys. To-night his thoughts were truant. He
forgot his strenuous life of the last three months, the dangers and
discomforts through which he had passed, the curious sequence of events
which had brought him, full of anticipation, nerved for a crisis, to
Monte Carlo of all places in the world. He forgot that he was in the
midst of great events, himself likely to take a hand in them. His
thoughts took, rarely enough for him, a purely personal and sentimental
turn. He thought of the earliest days of his marriage, when he and his
wife had wandered about the gardens of his old home in Wiltshire on
spring evenings such as these, and had talked sometimes lightly,
sometimes seriously, of the future. Almost as he sat there in the midst
of that noisy crowd, he could catch the faint perfume of hyacinths from
the borders along which they had passed and the trimly-cut flower-beds
which fringed the deep green lawn. Almost he could hear the chiming of
the old stable clock, the clear note of a thrush singing. A puff of wind
brought them a waft of fainter odour from the wild violets which
carpeted the woods. Then the darkness crept around them, a star came
out. Hand in hand they turned towards the house and into the library,
where a wood fire was burning on the grate. His thoughts travelled on. A
wave of tenderness had assailed him. Then he was awakened by the
waiter's voice at his elbow.

"Le cafe, monsieur."

He sat up in his chair. His dreaming moments were few and this one had
passed. He set his heel upon that tide of weakening memories, sipped his
coffee and looked out upon the crowd. Three or four times he glanced at
his watch impatiently. Precisely at nine o'clock, a man moved from
somewhere in the throng behind and took the vacant chair by his side.

"If one could trouble monsieur for a match!"

Hunterleys turned towards the newcomer as he handed his matchbox. He was
a young man of medium height, with sandy complexion, a little freckled,
and with a straggling fair moustache. He had keen grey eyes and the
faintest trace of a Scotch accent. He edged his chair a little nearer to
Hunterleys.

"Much obliged," he said. "Wonderful evening, isn't it?"

Hunterleys nodded.

"Have you anything to tell me, David?" he asked.

"We are right in the thick of it," the other replied, his tone a little
lowered. "There is more to tell than I like."

"Shall we stroll along the Terrace?" Hunterleys suggested.

"Don't move from your seat," the young man enjoined. "You are watched
here, and so am I, in a way, although it's more my news they want to
censor than anything personal. This crowd of Germans around us, without
a single vacant chair, is the best barrier we can have. Listen.
Selingman is here."

"I saw him this afternoon at the Sporting Club," Hunterleys murmured.

"Douaille will be here the day after to-morrow, if he has not already
arrived," the newcomer continued. "It was given out in Paris that he was
going down to Marseilles and from there to Toulon, to spend three days
with the fleet. They sent a paragraph into our office there. As a matter
of fact, he's coming straight on here. I can't learn how, exactly, but I
fancy by motor-car."

"You're sure that Douaille is coming himself?" Hunterleys asked
anxiously.

"Absolutely! His wife and family have been bustled down to Mentone, so
as to afford a pretext for his presence here if the papers get hold of
it. I have found out for certain that they came at a moment's notice and
were not expecting to leave home at all. Douaille will have full powers,
and the conference will take place at the Villa Mimosa. That will be the
headquarters of the whole thing.... Look out, Sir Henry. They've got
their eyes on us. The little fellow in brown, close behind, is hand in
glove with the police. They tried to get me into a row last night. It's
only my journalism they suspect, but they'd shove me over the frontier
at the least excuse. They're certain to try something of the sort with
you, if they get any idea that we are on the scent. Sit tight, sir, and
watch. I'm off. You know where to find me."

The young man raised his hat and left Hunterleys with the polite
farewell of a stranger. His seat was almost immediately seized by a
small man dressed in brown, a man with a black imperial and moustache
curled upwards. As Hunterleys glanced towards him, he raised his Hamburg
hat politely and smiled.

"Monsieur's friend has departed?" he enquired. "This seat is
disengaged?"

"As you see," Hunterleys replied.

The little man smiled his thanks, seated himself with a sigh of content
and ordered coffee from a passing waiter.

"Monsieur is doubtless a stranger to Monte Carlo?"

"It is my second visit only," Hunterleys admitted.

"For myself I am an habitue," the little man continued, "I might almost
say a resident. Therefore, all faces soon become familiar to me.
Directly I saw monsieur, I knew that he was not a frequenter."

Hunterleys turned a little in his chair and surveyed his neighbour
curiously. The man was neatly dressed and he spoke English with scarcely
any accent. His shoulders and upturned moustache gave him a military
appearance.

"There is nothing I envy any one so much in life," he proceeded, "as
coming to Monte Carlo for the first or second time. There is so much to
know, to see, to understand."

Hunterleys made no effort to discourage his companion's obvious attempts
to be friendly. The latter talked with spirit for some time.

"If it would not be regarded as a liberty," he said at last, as
Hunterleys rose to move off, "may I be permitted to present myself? My
name is Hugot? I am half English, half French. Years ago my health broke
down and I accepted a position in a bank here. Since then I have come in
to money. If I have a hobby in life, it is to show my beloved Monte
Carlo to strangers. If monsieur would do me the honour to spare me a few
hours to-night, later on, I would endeavour to see that he was amused."

Hunterleys shook his head. He remained, however, perfectly courteous. He
had a conviction that this was the man who had been watching his wife.

"You are very kind, sir," he replied. "I am here only for a few days and
for the benefit of my health. I dare not risk late hours. We shall meet
again, I trust."

He strolled off and as he hesitated upon the steps of the Casino he
glanced across towards the Hotel de Paris. At that moment a woman came
out, a light cloak over her evening gown. She was followed by an
attendant. Hunterleys recognised his wife and watched them with a
curious little thrill. They turned towards the Terrace. Very slowly he,
too, moved in the same direction. They passed through the gardens of the
Hotel de Paris, and Hunterleys, keeping to the left, met them upon the
Terrace as they emerged. As they came near he accosted them.

"Violet," he began.

She started.

"I beg your pardon," she said. "I did not recognise you."

"Haven't you been told," he asked stiffly, "that the Terrace is unsafe
for women after twilight?"

"Very often," she assented, with that little smile at the corners of her
lips which once he had found so charming and which now half maddened
him. "Unfortunately, I have a propensity for doing things which are
dangerous. Besides, I have my maid."

"Another woman is no protection," he declared.

"Susanne can shriek," Lady Hunterleys assured him. "She has wonderful
lungs and she loves to use them. She would shriek at the least
provocation."

"And meanwhile," Hunterleys observed drily, "while she is indulging in
her vocal exercises, things happen. If you wish to promenade here,
permit me to be your escort."

She hesitated for a moment, frowning. Then she continued her walk.

"You are very kind," she assented. "Perhaps you are like me, though, and
feel the restfulness of a quiet place after these throngs and throngs of
people."

They passed slowly down the broad promenade, deserted now save for one
or two loungers like themselves, and a few other furtive, hurrying
figures. In front of them stretched an arc of glittering lights--the
wonderful Bay of Mentone, with Bordighera on the distant sea-board;
higher up, the twinkling lights from the villas built on the rocky
hills. And at their feet the sea, calm, deep, blue, lapping the narrow
belt of hard sand, scintillating with the reflection of a thousand
lights; on the horizon a blood-red moon, only half emerged from the sea.

"Since we have met, Henry," Lady Hunterleys said at last, "there is
something which I should like to say to you."

"Certainly!"

She glanced behind. Susanne had fallen discreetly into the rear. She was
a new importation and she had no idea as to the identity of the tall,
severe-looking Englishman who walked by her mistress's side.

"There is something going on in Monte Carlo," Lady Hunterleys went on,
"which I cannot understand. Mr. Draconmeyer knows about it, I believe,
although he is not personally concerned in it. But he will tell me
nothing. I only know that for some reason or other your presence here
seems to be an annoyance to certain people. Why it should be I don't
know, but I want to ask you about it. Will you tell me the truth? Are
you sure that you did not come here to spy upon me?"

"I certainly did not," Hunterleys answered firmly. "I had no idea that
you were near the place. If I had--"

She turned her head. The smile was there once more and a queer, soft
light in her eyes.

"If you had?" she murmured.

"My visit here, under the present circumstances, would have been more
distasteful than it is," Hunterleys replied stiffly.

She bit her lip and turned away. When she resumed the conversation, her
tone was completely changed.

"I speak to you now," she said, "in your own interests. Mr. Draconmeyer
is, of course, not personally connected with this affair, whatever it
may be, but he is a wonderful man and he hears many things. To-night,
before dinner, he gave me a few words of warning. He did not tell me to
pass them on to you but I feel sure that he hoped I would. You would not
listen to them from him because you do not like him. I am afraid that
you will take very little more heed of what I say, but at least you will
believe that I speak in your own interests. Mr. Draconmeyer believes
that your presence here is misunderstood. A person whom he describes as
being utterly without principle and of great power is incensed by it. To
speak plainly, you are in danger."

"I am flattered," Hunterleys remarked, "by this interest on my behalf."

She turned her head and looked at him. His face, in this cold light
before the moon came up, was almost like the face of some marble statue,
lifeless, set, of almost stonelike severity. She knew the look so well
and she sighed.

"You need not be," she replied bitterly. "Mine is merely the ordinary
feeling of one human creature for another. In a sense it seems absurd, I
suppose, to speak to you as I am doing. Yet I do know that this place
which looks so beautiful has strange undercurrents. People pass away
here in the most orthodox fashion in the world, outwardly, but their
real ending is often never known at all. Everything is possible here,
and Mr. Draconmeyer honestly believes that you are in danger."

They had reached the end of the Terrace and they turned back.

"I thank you very much, Violet," Hunterleys said earnestly. "In return,
may I say something to you? If there is any danger threatening me or
those interests which I guard, the man whom you have chosen to make your
intimate friend is more deeply concerned in it than you think. I told
you once before that Draconmeyer was something more than the great
banker, the king of commerce, as he calls himself. He is ambitious
beyond your imaginings, a schemer in ways you know nothing of, and his
residence in London during the last fifteen years has been the worst
thing that ever happened for England. To me it is a bitter thing that
you should have ignored my warning and accepted his friendship--"

"It is not Mr. Draconmeyer who is my friend, Henry," she interrupted.
"You continually ignore that fact. It is Mrs. Draconmeyer whom I cannot
desert. I knew her long before I did her husband. We were at school
together, and there was a time before her last illness when we were
inseparable."

"That may have been so at first," Hunterleys agreed, "but how about
since then? You cannot deny, Violet, that this man Draconmeyer has in
some way impressed or fascinated you. You admire him. You find great
pleasure in his society. Isn't that the truth, now, honestly?"

Her face was a little troubled.

"I do certainly find pleasure in his society," she admitted. "I cannot
conceive any one who would not. He is a brilliant, a wonderful musician,
a delightful talker, a generous host and companion. He has treated me
always with the most scrupulous regard, and I feel that I am entirely
reasonable in resenting your mistrust of him."

"You do resent it still, then?"

"I do," she asserted emphatically.

"And if I told you," Hunterleys went on, "that the man was in love with
you. What then?"

"I should say that you were a fool!"

Hunterleys shrugged his shoulders.

"There is no more to be said," he declared, "only, for a clever woman,
Violet, you are sometimes woefully or wilfully blind. I tell you that I
know the type. Sooner or later--before very long, I should think--you
will have the usual scene. I warn you of it now. If you are wise, you
will go back to England."

"Absurd!" she scoffed. "Why, we have only just come! I want to win some
money--not that your allowance isn't liberal enough," she added hastily,
"but there is a fascination in winning, you know. And besides, I could
not possibly desert Mrs. Draconmeyer. She would not have come at all if
I had not joined them."

"You are the mistress of your own ways," Hunterleys said. "According to
my promise, I shall attempt to exercise no authority over you in any
way, but I tell you that Draconmeyer is my enemy, and the enemy of all
the things I represent, and I tell you, too, that he is in love with
you. When you realise that these things are firmly established in my
brain, you can perhaps understand how thoroughly distasteful I find your
association with him here. It is all very well to talk about Mrs.
Draconmeyer, but she goes nowhere. The consequence is that he is your
escort on every occasion. I am quite aware that a great many people in
society accept him. I personally am not disposed to. I look upon him as
an unfit companion for my wife and I resent your appearance with him in
public."

"We will discuss this subject no further," she decided. "From the moment
of our first disagreement, it has been your object to break off my
friendship with the Draconmeyers. Until I have something more than words
to go by, I shall continue to give him my confidence."

They crossed the stone flags in front of the Opera together, and turned
up towards the Rooms.

"I think, perhaps, then," he said, "that we may consider the subject
closed. Only," he added, "you will forgive me if I still--"

He hesitated. She turned her head quickly. Her eyes sought his but
unfortunately he was looking straight ahead and seeing gloomy things. If
he had happened to turn at that moment, he might have concluded his
speech differently.

"If I still exhibit some interest in your doings."

"I shall always think it most kind of you," she replied, her face
suddenly hardening. "Have I not done my best to reciprocate? I have even
passed on to you a word of warning, which I think you are very unwise to
ignore."

They were outside the hotel. Hunterleys paused.

"I have nothing to fear from the mysterious source you have spoken of,"
he assured her. "The only enemy I have in Monte Carlo is Draconmeyer
himself."

"Enemy!" she repeated scornfully. "Mr. Draconmeyer is much too wrapped
up in his finance, and too big a man, in his way, to have enemies. Oh,
Henry, if only you could get rid of a few of your prejudices, how much
more civilised a human being you would be!"

He raised his hat. His expression was a little grim.

"The man without prejudices, my dear Violet," he retorted, "is a man
without instincts.... I wish you luck."

She ran lightly up the steps and waved her hand. He watched her pass
through the doors into the hotel.




V

ENTER THE AMERICAN


Lady Weybourne was lunching on the terrace of Ciro's restaurant with her
brother. She was small, dark, vivacious. Her friends, of whom she had
thousands, all called her Flossie, and she was probably the most popular
American woman who had ever married into the English peerage. Her
brother, Richard Lane, on the other hand, was tall, very
broad-shouldered, with a strong, clean-shaven face, inclined by
disposition to be taciturn. On this particular morning he had less even
than usual to say, and although Lady Weybourne, who was a great
chatterbox, was content as a rule to do most of the talking for herself,
his inattention became at last a little too obvious. He glanced up
eagerly as every newcomer appeared, and his answers to his sister's
criticisms were sometimes almost at random.

"Dicky, I'm not at all sure that I'm liking you this morning," she
observed finally, looking across at him with a critically questioning
smile. "A certain amount of non-responsiveness to my advances I can put
up with--from a brother--but this morning you are positively
inattentive. Tell me your troubles at once. Has Harris been bothering
you, or did you lose a lot of money last night?"

Considering that the young man's income was derived from an exceedingly
well-invested capital of nine million dollars, and that Harris was the
all too perfect captain of his yacht lying then in the harbour, whose
worst complaint was that he had never enough work to do, Lady
Weybourne's enquiries might have been considered as merely tentative.
Richard shook his head a little gloomily.

"Those things aren't likely to trouble me," he remarked. "Harris is all
right, and I've promised him we'll make up a little party and go over to
Cannes in a day or two."

"What a ripping idea!" Lady Weybourne declared, breaking up her thin
toast between her fingers. "I'd love it, and so would Harry. We could
easily get together a delightful party. The Pelhams are here and simply
dying for a change, and there's Captain Gardner and Frank Clowes, and
lots of nice girls. Couldn't we fix a date, Dick?"

"Not just yet," her brother replied.

"And why not?"

"I am waiting," he told her, "until I can ask the girl I want to go."

"And why can't you now?" she demanded, with upraised eyebrows. "I'll be
hostess and chaperone all in one."

"I can't ask her because I don't know her yet," the young man explained
doggedly.

Lady Weybourne leaned back in her chair and laughed.

"So that's it!" she exclaimed. "Now I know why you're sitting there like
an owl this morning! In love with a fair unknown, are you, Dick? Be
careful. Monte Carlo is full of young ladies whom it would be just as
well to know a little about before you thought of taking them yachting."

"This one isn't that sort," the young man said.

"How do you know that?" she asked, leaning across the table, her head
resting on her clasped hands.

He looked at her almost contemptuously.

"How do I know!" he repeated. "There are just one or two things that
happen in this world which a man can be utterly and entirely sure of.
She is one of them. Say, Flossie," he added, the enthusiasm creeping at
last into his tone, "you never saw any one quite like her in all your
life!"

"Do I know her, I wonder?" Lady Weybourne enquired.

"That's just what I've asked you here to find out," her brother replied
ingenuously. "I heard her tell the man she was with this morning--her
father, I believe--about an hour ago, that she would be at Ciro's at
half-past one. It's twenty minutes to two now."

Lady Weybourne laughed heartily.

"So that's why you dragged me out of bed and made me come to lunch with
you! Dick, what a fraud you are! I was thinking what a dear,
affectionate brother you were, and all the time you were just making use
of me."

"Sorry," the young man said briskly, "but, after all, we needn't stand
on ceremony, need we? I've always been your pal; gave you a leg up with
the old man, you know, when he wasn't keen on the British alliance."

She nodded.

"Oh, I'll do what I can for you," she promised. "If she is any one in
particular I expect I shall know her. What's happening, Dick?"

The young man's face was almost transformed. His eyes were bright and
very fixed. His lips had come together in a firm, straight line, as
though he were renewing some promise to himself. Lady Weybourne followed
the direction of his gaze. A man and a girl had reached the entrance to
the restaurant and were looking around them as though to select a table.
The chief maitre d'hotel had hastened out to receive them. They were,
without doubt, people of importance. The man was of medium height, with
iron-grey hair and moustache, and a small imperial. He wore light
clothes of perfect cut; patent shoes with white linen gaiters; a black
tie fastened with a pin of opals. He carried himself with an air which
was unmistakable and convincing. The girl by his side was beautiful. She
was simply dressed in a tailor-made gown of white serge. Her black hat
was a miracle of smartness. Her hair was of a very light shade of
golden-brown, her complexion wonderfully fair. Lady Weybourne glanced at
her shoes and gloves, at the bag which she was carrying, and the handle
of her parasol. Then she nodded approvingly.

"You don't know her?" Richard asked, in a disappointed whisper.

She shook her head.

"Sorry," she admitted, "but I don't. They've probably only just
arrived."

With great ceremony the newcomers were conducted to the best table upon
the terrace. The man was evidently an habitue. He had scarcely taken his
seat before, with a very low bow, the sommelier brought him a small
wine-glass filled with what seemed to be vermouth. While he sipped it he
smoked a Russian cigarette and with a gold pencil wrote out the menu of
his luncheon. In a few minutes the manager himself came hurrying out
from the restaurant. His salute was almost reverential. When, after a
few moments' conversation, he departed, he did so with the air of one
taking leave of royalty. Lady Weybourne, who was an inquisitive little
person, was puzzled.

"I don't know who they are, Dick," she confessed, "but I know the ways
of this place well, and I can tell you one thing--they are people of
importance. You can tell that by the way they are received. These
restaurant people don't make mistakes."

"Of course they are people of importance," the young man declared. "Any
one can see that by a glance at the girl. I am sorry you don't know
them," he went on, "but you've got to find out who they are, and pretty
quickly, too. Look here, Flossie. I am a bit useful to you now and then,
aren't I?"

"Without you, my dear Dick," she murmured, "I should never be able to
manage those awful trustees. You are invaluable, a perfect jewel of a
brother."

"Well, I'll give you that little electric coupe you were so keen on last
time we were in London, if you'll get me an introduction to that girl
within twenty-four hours."

Lady Weybourne gasped.

"What a whirlwind!" she exclaimed. "Dicky, are you, by any chance, in
earnest?"

"In earnest for the first time in my life," he assured her. "Something
has got hold of me which I'm not going to part with."

She considered him reflectively. He was twenty-seven years of age, and
notwithstanding the boundless opportunities of his youth and great
wealth he had so far shown an almost singular indifference to the whole
of the opposite sex, from the fascinating chorus girls of London and New
York to the no less enterprising young women of his own order. As she
sat there studying his features, she felt a sensation almost of awe.
There was something entirely different, something stronger in his face.
She thought for a moment of their father as she had known him in her
childhood, the founder of their fortunes, a man who had risen from a
moderate position to immense wealth through sheer force of will, of
pertinacity. For the first time she saw the same look upon her brother's
face.

"Well," she sighed, "I shall do my best to earn it. I only hope, Dick,
that she is--"

"She is what?" he demanded, looking at her steadfastly.

"Oh! not engaged or anything, I mean," Lady Weybourne explained hastily.
"I must admit, Dick, although I don't suppose any sister is particularly
keen upon her brother's young women, that I think you've shown excellent
taste. She is absolutely the best style of any one I've seen in Monte
Carlo."

"How are you going to manage that introduction?" he asked bluntly. "Have
you made any plans?"

"I don't suppose it will be difficult," she assured him, lighting a
cigarette and shaking her head at the tray of liqueurs which the
sommelier was offering. "Get me some cream for my coffee, Dick. Now I'll
tell you," she continued, as the waiter disappeared. "You will have to
call that under-maitre d'hotel. You had better give him a substantial
tip and ask him quietly for their names. Then I'll see about the rest."

"That seems sensible enough," he admitted.

"And look here, Dick," she went on, "I know how impetuous you are. Don't
do anything foolish. Remember this isn't an ordinary adventure. If you
go rushing in upon it you'll come to grief."

"I know," he answered shortly. "I was fool enough to hang about the
flower shops and that milliner's this morning. I couldn't help it. I
don't know whether she noticed. I believe she did. Once our eyes did
meet, and although I'll swear she never changed her expression, I felt
that the whole world didn't hold so small a creature as I. Here comes
Charles. I'll ask him."

He beckoned to the maitre d'hotel and talked for a moment about the
luncheon. Then he ordered a table for the next day, and slipping a louis
into the man's hand, leaned over and whispered in his ear.

"I want you to tell me the name of the gentleman and young lady who are
sitting over there at the corner table?"

The maitre d'hotel glanced covertly in the direction indicated. He did
not at once reply. His face was perplexed, almost troubled.

"I am very sorry, sir," he said hesitatingly, "but our orders are very
strict. Monsieur Ciro does not like anything in the way of gossip about
our clients, and the gentleman is a very honoured patron. The young lady
is his daughter."

"Quite right," the young man agreed bluntly. "This isn't an ordinary
case, Charles. You go over to the desk there, write me down the name and
bring it, and there's a hundred franc note waiting here for you. No need
for the name to pass your lips."

The man bowed and retreated. In a few minutes he came back again and
laid a small card upon the table.

"Monsieur will pardon my reminding him," he begged earnestly, "but if he
will be so good as to never mention this little matter--"

Richard nodded and waved him away.

"Sure!" he promised.

He drew the card towards him and looked at it in a puzzled manner. Then
he passed it to his sister. Her expression, too, was blank.

"Who in the name of mischief," he exclaimed softly, "is Mr. Grex!"






"WHO IS MR. GREX?"


Lady Weybourne insisted, after a reasonable amount of time spent over
their coffee, that her brother should pay the bill and leave the
restaurant. They walked slowly across the square.

"What are you going to do about it?" he asked.

"There is only one thing to be done," she replied. "I shall speak to
every one I meet this afternoon--I shall be, in fact, most sociable--and
sooner or later in our conversation I shall ask every one if they know
Mr. Grex and his daughter. When I arrive at some one who does, that will
be the first step, won't it?"

"I wonder whether we shall see some one soon!" he grumbled, looking
around. "Where are all the people to-day!"

She laughed softly.

"Just a little impetuous, aren't you?"

"I should say so," he admitted. "I'd like to be introduced to her before
four o'clock, propose to her this evening, and--and--"

"And what?"

"Never mind," he concluded, marching on with his head turned towards the
clouds. "Let's go and sit down upon the Terrace and talk about her."

"But, my dear Dicky," his sister protested, "I don't want to sit upon
the Terrace. I am going to my dressmaker's across the way there, and
afterwards to Lucie's to try on some hats. Then I am going back to the
hotel for an hour's rest and to prink, and afterwards into the Sporting
Club at four o'clock. That's my programme. I shall be doing what I can
the whole of the time. I shall make discreet enquiries of my dressmaker,
who knows everybody, and I sha'n't let a single acquaintance go by. You
will have to amuse yourself till four o'clock, at any rate. There's Sir
Henry Hunterleys over there, having coffee. Go and talk to him. He may
put you out of your misery. Thanks ever so much for my luncheon, and au
revoir!"

She turned away with a little nod. Her brother, after a moment's
hesitation, approached the table where Hunterleys was sitting alone.

"How do you do, Sir Henry?"

Hunterleys returned his greeting, a little blankly at first. Then he
remembered the young man and held out his hand.

"Of course! You are Richard Lane, aren't you? Sit down and have some
coffee. What are you doing here?"

"I've got a little boat in the harbour," Richard replied, as he drew up
a chair. "I've been at Algiers for a time with some friends, and I've
brought them on here. Just been lunching with my sister. Are you alone?"

Hunterleys hesitated.

"Yes, I am alone."

"Wonderful place," the young man went on. "Wonderful crowd of people
here, too. I suppose you know everybody?" he added, warming up as he
approached his subject.

"On the contrary," Hunterleys answered, "I am almost a stranger here. I
have been staying further down the coast."

"Happen to know any one of the name of Grex?" Lane asked, with elaborate
carelessness.

Hunterleys made no immediate reply. He seemed to be considering the
name.

"Grex," he repeated, knocking the ash from his cigarette. "Rather an
uncommon name, isn't it? Why do you ask?"

"Oh, I've seen an elderly man and a young lady about once or twice,"
Lane explained. "Very interesting-looking people. Some one told me that
their name was Grex."

"There is a person living under that name, I think," Hunterleys said,
"who has taken the Villa Mimosa for the season."

"Do you know him personally?" the young man asked eagerly.

"Personally? No, I can scarcely say that I do."

Richard Lane sighed. It was disappointment number one. For some reason
or other, too, Hunterleys seemed disposed to change the conversation.

"The young lady who is always with him," Richard persisted, "would that
be his daughter?"

Hunterleys turned a little in his seat and surveyed his questioner. He
had met Lane once or twice and rather liked him.

"Look here, young fellow," he said, good humouredly, "let me ask you a
question for a change. What is the nature of these enquiries of yours?"

Lane hesitated. Something in Hunterleys' face and manner induced him to
tell the truth.

"I have fallen head over heels in love with the young lady," he
confessed. "Don't think I am a confounded jackass. I am not in the habit
of doing such things. I'm twenty-seven and I have never gone out of my
way to meet a girl yet. This is something--different. I want to find out
about them and get an introduction."

Hunterleys shook his head regretfully.

"I am afraid," he said, "that I can be of no use to you--no practical
use, that is. I can only give you one little piece of advice."

"Well, what is it?" Richard asked eagerly.

"If you are in earnest," Hunterleys continued, "and I will do you the
credit to believe that you are, you had better pack up your things,
return to your yacht and take a cruise somewhere."

"Take a cruise somewhere!"

Hunterleys nodded.

"Get out of Monte Carlo as quickly as you can, and, above all, don't
think anything more of that young lady. Get the idea out of your head as
quickly as you can."

The young man was sitting upright in his chair. His manner was half
minatory.

"Say, what do you mean by this?" he demanded.

"Exactly what I said just now," Hunterleys rejoined. "If you are in
earnest, and I have no doubt that you are, I should clear out."

"What is it you are trying to make me understand?" Richard asked
bluntly.

"That you have about as much chance with that young lady," Hunterleys
assured him, "as with that very graceful statue in the square yonder."

Richard sat for a moment with knitted brows.

"Then you know who she is, any way?"

"Whether I do or whether I do not," the older man said gravely, "so far
as I am concerned, the subject is exhausted. I have given you the best
advice you ever had in your life. It's up to you to follow it."

Richard looked at him blankly.

"Well, you've got me puzzled," he confessed.

Hunterleys rose to his feet, and, summoning a waiter, paid his bill.

"You'll excuse me, won't you?" he begged. "I have an appointment in a
few minutes. If you are wise, young man," he added, patting him on the
shoulder as he turned to go, "you will take my advice."

Left to himself, Richard Lane strolled around the place towards the
Terrace. He had no fancy for the Rooms and he found a seat as far
removed as possible from the Tir du Pigeons. He sat there with folded
arms, looking out across the sun-dappled sea. His matter-of-fact brain
offered him but one explanation as to the meaning of Hunterleys' words,
and against that explanation his whole being was in passionate revolt.
He represented a type of young man who possesses morals by reason of a
certain unsuspected idealism, mingled with perfect physical sanity. It
seemed to him, as he sat there, that he had been waiting for this day
for years. The old nights in New York and Paris and London floated
before his memory. He pushed them on one side with a shiver, and yet
with a curious feeling of exultation. He recalled a certain sensation
which had been drawn through his life like a thin golden thread, a
sensation which had a habit of especially asserting itself in the midst
of these youthful orgies, a curious sense of waiting for something to
happen, a sensation which had been responsible very often for what his
friends had looked upon as eccentricity. He knew now that this thing had
arrived, and everything else in life seemed to pale by the side of it.
Hunterleys' words had thrown him temporarily into a strange turmoil.
Solitude for a few moments he had felt to be entirely necessary. Yet
directly he was alone, directly he was free to listen to his
convictions, he could have laughed at that first mad surging of his
blood, the fierce, instinctive rebellion against the conclusion to which
Hunterleys' words seemed to point. Now that he was alone, he was not
even angry. No one else could possibly understand!

Before long he was once more upon his feet, starting out upon his quest
with renewed energy. He had scarcely taken a dozen steps, however, when
he came face to face with Lady Hunterleys and Mr. Draconmeyer. Quite
oblivious of the fact that they seemed inclined to avoid him, he greeted
them both with unusual warmth.

"Saw your husband just now, Lady Hunterleys," he remarked, a little
puzzled. "I fancied he said he was alone here."

She smiled.

"We did not come together," she explained; "in fact, our meeting was
almost accidental. Henry had been at Bordighera and San Remo and I came
out with Mr. and Mrs. Draconmeyer."

The young man nodded and turned towards Draconmeyer, who was standing a
little on one side as though anxious to proceed.

"Mr. Draconmeyer doesn't remember me, perhaps. I met him at my sister's,
Lady Weybourne's, just before Christmas."

"I remember you perfectly," Mr. Draconmeyer assured him courteously. "We
have all been admiring your beautiful yacht in the harbour there."

"I was thinking of getting up a little cruise before long," Richard
continued. "If so, I hope you'll all join us. Flossie is going to be
hostess, and the Montressors are passengers already."

They murmured something non-committal. Lady Hunterleys seemed as though
about to pass on but Lane blocked the way.

"I only arrived the other day from Algiers," he went on, making frantic
efforts to continue the conversation. "I brought Freddy Montressor and
his sister, and Fothergill."

"Mr. Montressor has come to the Hotel de Paris," Lady Hunterleys
remarked. "What sort of weather did you have in Algiers?"

"Ripping!" the young man replied absently, entirely oblivious of the
fact that they had been driven away by incessant rain. "This place is
much more fun, though," he added, with sudden inspiration. "Crowds of
interesting people. I suppose you know every one?"

Lady Hunterleys shook her head.

"Indeed I do not. Mr. Draconmeyer here is my guide. He is as good as a
walking directory."

"I wonder if either of you know some people named Grex?" Richard asked,
with studious indifference.

Mr. Draconmeyer for the first time showed some signs of interest. He
looked at their questioner steadfastly.

"Grex," he repeated. "A very uncommon name."

"Very uncommon-looking people," Richard declared. "The man is elderly,
and looks as though he took great care of himself--awfully well turned
out and all that. The daughter is--good-looking."

Mr. Draconmeyer took off his gold-rimmed spectacles and rubbed them with
his handkerchief.

"Why do you ask?" he enquired. "Is this just curiosity?"

"Rather more than that," Richard said boldly. "It's interest."

Mr. Draconmeyer readjusted his spectacles.

"Mr. Grex," he announced, "is a gentleman of great wealth and
illustrious birth, who has taken a very magnificent villa and desires
for a time to lead a life of seclusion. That is as much as I or any one
else knows."

"What about the young lady?" Richard persisted.

"The young lady," Mr. Draconmeyer answered, "is, as you surmised, his
daughter.... Shall we finish our promenade, Lady Hunterleys?"

Richard stood grudgingly a little on one side.

"Mr. Draconmeyer," he said desperately, "do you think there'd be any
chance of my getting an introduction to the young lady?"

Mr. Draconmeyer at first smiled and then began to laugh, as though
something in the idea tickled him. He looked at the young man and
Richard hated him.

"Not the slightest in the world, I should think," he declared. "Good
afternoon!"

Lady Hunterleys joined in her companion's amusement as they continued
their promenade.

"Is the young man in love, do you suppose?" she enquired lightly.

"If so," her companion replied, "he has made a somewhat unfortunate
choice. However, it really doesn't matter. Love at his age is nothing
more than a mood. It will pass as all moods pass."

She turned and looked at him.

"Do you mean," she asked incredulously, "that youth is incapable of
love?"

They had paused for a moment, looking out across the bay towards the
glittering white front of Bordighera. Mr. Draconmeyer took off his hat.
Somehow, without it, in that clear light, one realised, notwithstanding
his spectacles, his grizzled black beard of unfashionable shape, his
over-massive forehead and shaggy eyebrows, that his, too, was the face
of one whose feet were not always upon the earth.

"Perhaps," he answered, "it is a matter of degree, yet I am almost
tempted to answer your question absolutely. I do not believe that youth
can love, because from the first it misapprehends the meaning of the
term. I believe that the gift of loving comes only to those who have
reached the hills."

She looked at him, a little surprised. Always thoughtful, always
sympathetic, generally stimulating, it was very seldom that she had
heard him speak with so much real feeling. Suddenly he turned his head
from the sea. His eyes seemed to challenge hers.

"Your question," he continued, "touches upon one of the great tragedies
of life. Upon those who are free from their youth there is a great tax
levied. Nature has decreed that they should feel something which they
call love. They marry, and in this small world of ours they give a
hostage as heavy as a millstone of their chances of happiness. For it is
only in later life, when a man has knowledge as well as passion, when
unless he is fortunate it is too late, that he can know what love is."

She moved a little uneasily. She felt that something was coming which
she desired to avoid, some confidence, something from which she must
escape. The memory of her husband's warning was vividly present with
her. She felt the magnetism of her companion's words, his compelling
gaze.

"It is so with me," he went on, leaning a little towards her, "only in
my case--"

Providence was intervening. Never had the swish of a woman's skirt
sounded so sweet to her before.

"Here's Dolly Montressor," she interrupted, "coming up to speak to us."




I

CAKES AND COUNSELS


The Sporting Club seemed to fill up that afternoon almost as soon as the
doors were opened. At half-past four, people were standing two or three
deep around the roulette tables. Selingman, very warm, and looking
somewhat annoyed, withdrew himself from the front row of the lower
table, and taking Mr. Grex and Draconmeyer by the arm, led them towards
the tea-room.

"I have lost six louis!" he exclaimed, fretfully. "I have had the
devil's own luck. I shall play no more for the present. We will have tea
together."

They appropriated a round table in a distant corner of the restaurant.

"History," Selingman continued, heaping his plate with rich cakes, "has
been made before now in strange places. Why not here? We sit here in
close touch with one of the most interesting phases of modern life. We
can even hear the voice of fate, the click of the little ball as it
finishes its momentous journey and sinks to rest. Why should we, too,
not speak of fateful things?"

Mr. Draconmeyer glanced around.

"For myself," he muttered, "I must say that I prefer a smaller room and
a locked door."

Selingman demolished a chocolate eclair and shook his head vigorously.

"The public places for me," he declared. "Now look around. There is no
one, as you will admit, within ear-shot. Very well. What will they say,
those who suspect us, if they see us drinking tea and eating many cakes
together? Certainly not that we conspire, that we make mischief here. On
the other hand, they will say 'There are three great men at play, come
to Monte Carlo to rest from their labours, to throw aside for a time the
burden from their shoulders; to flirt, to play, to eat cakes.' It is a
good place to talk, this, and I have something in my mind which must be
said."

Mr. Grex sipped his pale, lemon-flavoured tea and toyed with his
cigarette-case. He was eating nothing.

"Assuming you to be a man of sense, my dear Selingman," he remarked, "I
think that what you have to say is easily surmised. The Englishman!"

Selingman agreed with ponderous emphasis.

"We have before us," he declared, "a task of unusual delicacy. Our
friend from Paris may be here at any moment. How we shall fare with him,
heaven only knows! But there is one thing very certain. At the sight of
Hunterleys he will take alarm. He will be like a frightened bird, all
ruffled feathers. He will never settle down to a serious discussion.
Hunterleys knows this. That is why he presents himself without reserve
in public, why he is surrounded with Secret Service men of his own
country, all on the _qui vive_ for the coming of Douaille."

"It appears tolerably certain," Mr. Draconmeyer said calmly, "that we
must get rid of Hunterleys."

Mr. Grex looked out of the window for a moment.

"To some extent," he observed, "I am a stranger here. I come as a guest
to this conference, as our other friend from Paris comes, too. Any small
task which may arise from the necessities of the situation, devolves, I
think I may say without unfairness, upon you, my friend."

Selingman assented gloomily.

"That is true," he admitted, "but in Hunterleys we have to do with no
ordinary man. He does not gamble. To the ordinary attractions of Monte
Carlo he is indifferent. He is one of these thin-blooded men with
principles. Cromwell would have made a lay preacher of him."

"You find difficulties?" Mr. Grex queried, with slightly uplifted
eyebrows.

"Not difficulties," Selingman continued quickly. "Or if indeed we do
call them difficulties, let us say at once that they are very minor
ones. Only the thing must be done neatly and without ostentation, for
the sake of our friend who comes."

"My own position," Mr. Draconmeyer intervened, "is, in a way, delicate.
The unexplained disappearance of Sir Henry Hunterleys might, by some
people, be connected with the great friendship which exists between my
wife and his."

Mr. Grex polished his horn-rimmed eyeglass. Selingman nodded
sympathetically. Neither of them looked at Draconmeyer. Finally
Selingman heaved a sigh and brushed the crumbs from his waistcoat.

"If one were assured," he murmured thoughtfully, "that Hunterleys'
presence here had a real significance--"

Draconmeyer pushed his chair forward and leaned across the table. The
heads of the three men were close together. His tone was stealthily
lowered.

"Let me tell you something, my friend Selingman, which I think should
strengthen any half-formed intention you may have in your brain.
Hunterleys is no ordinary sojourner here. You were quite right when you
told me that his stay at Bordighera and San Remo was a matter of days
only. Now I will tell you something. Three weeks ago he was at
Bukharest. He spent two days with Novisko. From there he went to Sofia.
He was heard of in Athens and Constantinople. My own agent wrote me that
he was in Belgrade. Hunterleys is the bosom friend of the English
Foreign Secretary. That I know for myself. You have your reports. You
can read between the lines. I tell you that Hunterleys is the man who
has paralysed our action amongst the Balkan States. He has played a neat
little game out there. It is he who was the inspiration of Roumania. It
is he who drafted the secret understanding with Turkey. The war which we
hoped for will not take place. From there Hunterleys came in a gunboat
and landed on the Italian coast. He lingered at Bordighera for
appearances only. He is here, if he can, to break up our conference. I
tell you that you none of you appreciate this man. Hunterleys is the
most dangerous Englishman living--"

"One moment," Selingman interrupted. "To some extent I follow you, but
when you speak of Hunterleys as a power in the present tense, doesn't it
occur to you that his Party is not in office? He is simply a member of
the Opposition. If his Party get in again at the next election, I grant
you that he will be Foreign Minister and a dangerous one, but to-day he
is simply a private person."

"It is not every one," Mr. Draconmeyer said slowly, "who bows his knee
to the shibboleth of party politics. Remember that I come to you from
London and I have information of which few others are possessed.
Hunterleys is of the stuff of which patriots are made. Party is no
concern of his. He and the present Foreign Secretary are the greatest of
personal friends. I know for a fact that Hunterleys has actually been
consulted and has helped in one or two recent crises. The very
circumstance that he is not of the ruling Party makes a free lance of
him. When his people are in power, he will have to take office and wear
the shackles. To-day, with every quality which would make him the
greatest Foreign Minister England has ever had since Disraeli, he is
nothing more nor less than a roving diplomatist, Emperor of his
country's Secret Service, if you like to put it so. Furthermore, look a
little into that future of which I have spoken. The present English
Government will last, at the most, another two years. I tell you that
when they go out of power, whoever comes in, Hunterleys will go to the
Foreign Office. We shall have to deal with a man who knows, a man--"

"I am not wholly satisfied with these eclairs," Selingman interrupted,
gazing into the dish. "Maitre d'hotel, come and listen to an awful
complaint," he went on, and, addressing one of the head-waiters. "Your
eclairs are too small, your cream-cakes too irresistible. I eat too much
here. How, I ask you in the name of common sense, can a man dine who
takes tea here! Bring the bill."

The man, smiling, hastened away. Not a word had passed between the
three, yet the other two understood the situation perfectly. Hunterleys
and Richard Lane had entered the room together and were seated at an
adjoining table. Selingman plunged into a fresh tirade, pointing to the
half-demolished plateful of cakes.

"I will eat one more," he declared. "We will bilk the management. The
bill is made out. I shall not be observed. Our friend," he continued,
under his breath, "has secured a valuable bodyguard, something very
large and exceedingly powerful."

Draconmeyer hesitated for a moment. Then he turned to Mr. Grex.

"You have perhaps observed," he said, "the young man who is seated at
the next table. It may amuse you to hear of a very extraordinary piece
of impertinence of which, only this afternoon, he was guilty. He
accosted me upon the Terrace--he is a young American whom I have met in
London--and asked me for information respecting a Mr. and Miss Grex."

Mr. Grex looked slowly towards the speaker. There was very little change
in his face, yet Draconmeyer seemed in some way confused.

"You will understand, I am sure, sir," he continued, a little hastily,
"that I was in no way to blame for the question which the young man
addressed to me. He had the presumption to enquire whether I could
procure for him an introduction to the young lady whom he knew as Miss
Grex. Even at this moment," Draconmeyer went on, lowering his voice, "he
is trying to persuade Hunterleys to let him come over to us."

"The young man," Mr. Grex said deliberately, "is ignorant. If necessary,
he must be taught his lesson."

Selingman intervened. He breathed a heavy sigh.

"Well," he observed, "I perceive that the task at which we have hinted
is to fall upon my shoulders. We must do what we can. I am a
tender-hearted man, and if extremes can be avoided, I shall like my task
better.... And now I have changed my mind. The loss of that six louis
weighs upon me. I shall endeavour to regain it. Let us go."

They rose and passed out into the roulette rooms. Richard Lane, who
remained in his seat with an effort, watched them pass with a frown upon
his face.

"Say, Sir Henry," he complained, "I don't quite understand this. Why,
I'd only got to go over to Draconmeyer there and stand and talk for a
moment, and he must have introduced me."

Hunterleys shook his head.

"Let me assure you," he said, "that Draconmeyer would have done nothing
of the sort. For one thing, we don't introduce over here as a matter of
course, as you do in America. And for another--well, I won't trouble you
with the other reason.... Look here, Lane, take my advice, there's a
sensible fellow. I am a man of the world, you know, and there are
certain situations in which one can make no mistake. If you are as hard
hit as you say you are, go for a cruise and get over it. Don't hang
around here. No good will come of it."

The young man set his teeth. He was looking very determined indeed.

"There isn't anything in this world, short of a bomb," he declared,
"which is going to blow me out of Monte Carlo before I have made the
acquaintance of Miss Grex!"




II

THE EFFRONTERY OF RICHARD


Hunterleys took leave of his companion as soon as they arrived at the
roulette rooms.

"Take my advice, Lane," he said seriously. "Find something to occupy
your thoughts. Throw a few hundred thousand of your dollars away at the
tables, if you must do something foolish. You'll get into far less
trouble."

Richard made no direct reply. He watched Hunterleys depart and took up
his place opposite the door to await his sister's arrival. It was a
quarter to five before she appeared and found him waiting for her in the
doorway.

"Say, you're late, Flossie!" he grumbled. "I thought you were going to
be here soon after four."

She glanced at the little watch upon her wrist.

"How the time does slip away!" she sighed. "But really, Dicky, I am late
in your interests as much as anything. I have been paying a few calls. I
went out to the Villa Rosa to see some people who almost live here, and
then I met Lady Crawley and she made me go in and have some tea."

"Well?" he asked impatiently. "Well?"

She laid her fingers upon his arm and drew him into a less crowded part
of the room.

"Dicky," she confessed, "I don't seem to have had a bit of luck. The
Comtesse d'Hausson, who lives at the Villa Rosa, knows them and showed
me from the window the Villa Mimosa, where they live, but she would tell
me absolutely nothing about them. The villa is the finest in Monte
Carlo, and has always been taken before by some one of note. She
declares that they do not mix in the society of the place, but she
admits that she has heard a rumour that Grex is only an assumed name."

"I begin to believe that myself," he said doggedly. "Hunterleys knows
who they are and won't tell me. So does that fellow Draconmeyer."

"Sir Henry and Mr. Draconmeyer!" she repeated, raising her eyes. "My
dear Dick, that doesn't sound very reasonable, does it?"

"I tell you that they do," he persisted. "They as good as told me so.
Hunterleys, especially, left me here only half-an-hour ago, and his last
words were advising me to chuck it. He's a sensible chap enough but he
won't even tell me why. I've had enough of it. I've a good mind to take
the bull by the horns myself. Mr. Grex is here now, somewhere about. He
was sitting with Mr. Draconmeyer and a fat old German a few minutes ago,
at the next table to ours. If I had been alone I should have gone up and
chanced being introduced, but Hunterleys wouldn't let me."

"Well, so far," Lady Weybourne admitted, "I fear that I haven't done
much towards that electric coupe; but," she added, in a changed tone,
looking across the tables, "there is just one thing, Dicky. Fate
sometimes has a great deal to do with these little affairs. Look over
there."

Richard left his sister precipitately, without even a word of farewell.
She watched him cross the room, and smiled at the fury of a little
Frenchman whom he nearly knocked over in his hurry to get round to the
other side of the table. A moment later he was standing a few feet away
from the girl who had taken so strange a hold upon his affections. He
himself was conscious of a curious and unfamiliar nervousness.
Physically he felt as though he had been running hard. He set his teeth
and tried to keep cool. He found some plaques in his pocket and began to
stake. Then he became aware that the girl was holding in her hand a note
and endeavouring to attract the attention of the man who was giving
change.

"_Petite monnaie, s'il vous plait_," he heard her say, stretching out
the note.

The man took no notice. Richard held out his hand.

"Will you allow me to get it changed for you?" he asked.

Her first impulse at the sound of his voice was evidently one of
resentment. She seemed, indeed, in the act of returning some chilling
reply. Then she glanced half carelessly towards him and her eyes rested
upon his face. Richard was good-looking enough, but the chief
characteristic of his face was a certain honesty, which seemed
accentuated at that moment by his undoubted earnestness. The type was
perhaps strange to her. She was almost startled by what she saw.
Scarcely knowing what she did, she allowed him to take the note from her
fingers.

"Thank you very much," she murmured.

Richard procured the change. He would have lifted every one out of the
way if she had been in a hurry. Then he turned round and counted it very
slowly into her hands. From the left one she had removed the glove and
he saw, to his relief, that there was no engagement ring there. He
counted so slowly that towards the end she seemed to become a little
impatient.

"That is quite all right," she said. "It was very kind of you to
trouble."

She spoke very correct English with the slightest of foreign accents. He
looked once more into her eyes.

"It was a pleasure," he declared.

She smiled faintly, an act of graciousness which absolutely turned his
head. With her hand full of plaques, she moved away and found a place a
little lower down the table. Richard fought with his first instinct and
conquered it. He remained where he was, and when he moved it was in
another direction. He went into the bar and ordered a whisky and soda.
He was as excited as he had been in the old days when he had rowed
stroke in a winning race for his college boat. He felt, somehow or
other, that the first step had been a success. She had been inclined at
first to resent his offer. She had looked at him and changed her mind.
Even when she had turned away, she had smiled. It was ridiculous, but he
felt as though he had taken a great step. Presently Lady Weybourne, on
her way to the baccarat rooms, saw him sitting there and looked in.

"Well, Dicky," she exclaimed, "what luck?"

"Sit down, Flossie," he begged. "I've spoken to her."

"You don't mean,--" she began, horrified.

"Oh, no, no! Nothing of that sort!" he interrupted. "Don't think I'm
such a blundering ass. She was trying to get change and couldn't reach.
I took the note from her, got the change and gave it to her. She said,
'Thank you.' When she went away, she smiled."

Lady Weybourne flopped down upon the divan and screamed with laughter.

"Dicky," she murmured, wiping her eyes, "tell me, is that why you are
sitting there, looking as though you could see right into Heaven? Do you
know that your face was one great beam when I came in?"

"Can't help it," he answered contentedly. "I've spoken to her and she
smiled."

Lady Weybourne opened her gold bag and produced a card.

"Well," she said, "here is another chance for you. Of course, I don't
know that it will come to anything, but you may as well try your luck."

"What is it?" he asked.

She thrust a square of gilt-edged cardboard into his hand.

"It's an invitation," she told him, "from the directors, to attend a
dinner at La Turbie Golf Club-house, up in the mountains, to-night. It
isn't entirely a joke, I can tell you. It takes at least an hour to get
there, climbing all the way, and the place is as likely as not to be
wrapped in clouds, but a great many of the important people are going,
and as I happened to see Mr. Grex's name amongst the list of members,
the other night, there is always a chance that they may be there. If
not, you see, you can soon come back."

"I'm on," Richard decided. "Give me the ticket. I am awfully obliged to
you, Flossie."

"If she is there," Lady Weybourne declared, rising, "I shall consider
that it is equivalent to one wheel of the coupe."

"Have a cocktail instead," he suggested.

She shook her head.

"Too early. If we meet later on, I'll have one. What are you going to
do?"

"Same as I've been doing ever since lunch," he answered,--"hang around
and see if I can meet any one who knows them."

She laughed and hurried off into the baccarat room, and Richard
presently returned to the table at which the girl was still playing. He
took particular care not to approach her, but he found a place on the
opposite side of the room, from which he could watch her unobserved. She
was still standing and apparently she was losing her money. Once, with a
little petulant frown, she turned away and moved a few yards lower down
the room. The first time she staked in her new position, she won, and a
smile which it seemed to him was the most brilliant he had ever seen,
parted her lips. He stood there looking at her, and in the midst of a
scene where money seemed god of all things, he realised all manner of
strange and pleasant sensations. The fact that he had twenty thousand
francs in his pocket to play with, scarcely occurred to him. He was
watching a little wisp of golden hair by her ear, watching her slightly
wrinkled forehead as she leaned over the table, her little grimace as
she lost and her stake was swept away. She seemed indifferent to all
bystanders. It was obvious that she had very few acquaintances. Where he
stood it was not likely that she would notice him, and he abandoned
himself wholly to the luxury of gazing at her. Then some instinct caused
him to turn his head. He felt that he in his turn was being watched. He
glanced towards the divan set against the wall, by the side of which he
was standing. Mr. Grex was seated there, only a few feet away, smoking a
cigarette. Their eyes met and Richard was conscious of a sudden
embarrassment. He felt like a detected thief, and he acted at that
moment as he often did--entirely on impulse. He leaned down and
resolutely addressed Mr. Grex.

"I should be glad, sir, if you would allow me to speak to you for a
moment."

Mr. Grex's expression was one of cold surprise, unmixed with any
curiosity.

"Do you address me?" he asked.

His tone was vastly discouraging but it was too late to draw back.

"I should like to speak to you, if I may," Richard continued.

"I am not aware," Mr. Grex said, "that I have the privilege of your
acquaintance."

"You haven't," Richard admitted, "but all the same I want to speak to
you, if I may."

"Since you have gone so far," Mr. Grex conceded, "you had better finish,
but you must allow me to tell you in advance that I look upon any
address from a perfect stranger as an impertinence."

"You'll think worse of me before I've finished, then," Richard declared
desperately. "You don't mind if I sit down?"

"These seats," Mr. Grex replied coldly, "are free to all."

The young man took his place upon the divan with a sinking heart. There
was something in Mr. Grex's tone which seemed to destroy all his
confidence, a note of something almost alien in the measured contempt of
his speech.

"I am sorry to give you any offence," Richard began. "I happened to
notice that you were watching me. I was looking at your
daughter--staring at her. I am afraid you thought me impertinent."

"Your perspicuity," Mr. Grex observed, "seems to be of a higher order
than your manners. You are, perhaps, a stranger to civilised society?"

"I don't know about that," Richard went on doggedly. "I have been to
college and mixed with the usual sort of people. My birth isn't much to
speak of, perhaps, if you count that for anything."

Something which was almost like the ghost of a smile, devoid of any
trace of humour, parted Mr. Grex's lips.

"If I count that for anything!" he repeated, half closing his eyes for a
moment. "Pray proceed, young man."

"I am an American," Richard continued. "My name is Richard Lane. My
father was very wealthy and I am his heir. My sister is Lady Weybourne.
I was lunching with her at Ciro's to-day when I saw you and your
daughter. I think I can say that I am a respectable person. I have a
great many friends to whom I can refer you."

"I am not thinking of engaging anybody, that I know of," Mr. Grex
murmured.

"I want to marry your daughter," Richard declared desperately, feeling
that any further form of explanation would only lead him into greater
trouble.

Mr. Grex knocked the ash from his cigarette.

"Is your keeper anywhere in the vicinity?" he asked.

"I am perfectly sane," Richard assured him. "I know that it sounds
foolish but it isn't really. I am twenty-seven years old and I have
never asked a girl to marry me yet. I have been waiting until--"

The words died away upon his lips. It was impossible for him to
continue, the cold enmity of this man was too chilling.

"I am absolutely in earnest," he insisted. "I have been endeavouring all
day to find some mutual friend to introduce me to your daughter. Will
you do so? Will you give me a chance?"

"I will not," Mr. Grex replied firmly.

"Why not? Please tell me why not?" Richard begged. "I am not asking for
anything more now than just an opportunity to talk with her."

"It is not a matter which admits of discussion," Mr. Grex pronounced. "I
have permitted you to say what you wished, notwithstanding the colossal,
the unimaginable impertinence of your suggestion. I request you to leave
me now and I advise you most heartily to indulge no more in the most
preposterous and idiotic idea which ever entered into the head of an
apparently sane young man."

Richard rose slowly to his feet.

"Very well, sir," he replied, "I'll go. All the same, what you have said
doesn't make any difference."

"Does not make any difference?" Mr. Grex repeated, with arched eyebrows.

"None at all," Richard declared. "I don't know what your objection to me
is, but I hope you'll get over it some day. I'd like to make friends
with you. Perhaps, later on, you may look at the matter differently."

"Later on?" Mr. Grex murmured.

"When I have married your daughter," Richard concluded, marching
defiantly away.

Mr. Grex watched the young man until he had disappeared in the crowd.
Then he leaned hack amongst the cushions of the divan with folded arms.
Little lines had become visible around his eyes, there was a slight
twitching at the corners of his lips. He looked like a man who was
inwardly enjoying some huge joke.




III

UP THE MOUNTAIN


Richard, passing the Hotel de Paris that evening in his wicked-looking
grey racing car, saw Hunterleys standing on the steps and pulled up.

"Not going up to La Turbie, by any chance?" he enquired.

Hunterleys nodded.

"I'm going up to the dinner," he replied. "The hotel motor is starting
from here in a few minutes."

"Come with me," Richard invited.

Hunterleys looked a little doubtfully at the long, low machine.

"Are you going to shoot up?" he asked. "It's rather a dangerous road."

"I'll take care of you," the young man promised. "That hotel 'bus will
be crammed."

They glided through the streets on to the broad, hard road, and crept
upwards with scarcely a sound, through the blue-black twilight. Around
and in front of them little lights shone out from the villas and small
houses dotted away in the mountains. Almost imperceptibly they passed
into a different atmosphere. The air became cold and exhilarating. The
flavour of the mountain snows gave life to the breeze. Hunterleys
buttoned up his coat but bared his head.

"My young friend," he said, "this is wonderful."

"It's a great climb," Richard assented, "and doesn't she just eat it
up!"

They paused for a moment at La Turbie. Below them was a chain of
glittering lights fringing the Bay of Mentone, and at their feet the
lights of the Casino and Monte Carlo flared up through the scented
darkness. Once more they swung upwards. The road now had become narrower
and the turnings more frequent. They were up above the region of villas
and farmhouses, in a country which seemed to consist only of bleak
hill-side, open to the winds, wrapped in shadows. Now and then they
heard the tinkling of a goat bell; far below they saw the twin lights of
other ascending cars. They reached the plateau at last and drew up
before the club-house, ablaze with cheerful lights.

"I'll just leave the car under the trees," Richard declared. "No one
will be staying late."

Hunterleys unwound his scarf and handed his coat and hat to a page-boy.
Then he stood suddenly rigid. He bit his lip. His wife had just issued
from the cloak-room and was drawing on her gloves. She saw him and
hesitated. She, too, turned a little paler. Slowly Hunterleys approached
her.

"An unexpected pleasure," he murmured.

"I am here with Mr. Draconmeyer," she told him, almost bluntly.

Hunterleys bowed.

"And a party?" he enquired.

"No," she replied. "I really did not want to come. Mr. Draconmeyer had
promised Monsieur Pericot, the director here, to come and bring Mrs.
Draconmeyer. At the last moment, however, she was not well enough, and
he almost insisted upon my taking her place."

"Is it necessary to explain?" Hunterleys asked quietly. "You know very
well how I regard this friendship of yours."

"I am sorry," she said. "If I had known that we were likely to
meet--well, I would not have come here to-night."

"You were at least considerate," he remarked bitterly. "May I be
permitted to compliment you upon your toilette?"

"As you pay for my frocks," she answered, "there is certainly no reason
why you shouldn't admire them."

He bit his lip. There was a certain challenge in her expression which
made him, for a moment, feel weak. She was a very beautiful woman and
she was looking her best. He spoke quickly on another subject.

"Are you still," he asked, "troubled by the attentions of the person you
spoke to me about?"

"I am still watched," she replied drily.

"I have made some enquiries," Hunterleys continued, "and I have come to
the conclusion that you are right."

"And you still tell me that you have nothing to do with it?"

"I assure you, upon my honour, that I have nothing whatever to do with
it."

It was obvious that she was puzzled, but at that moment Mr. Draconmeyer
presented himself. The newcomer simply bowed to Hunterleys and addressed
some remark about the room to Violet. Then Richard came up and they all
passed on into the reception room, where two or three very fussy but
very suave and charming Frenchmen were receiving the guests. A few
minutes afterwards dinner was announced. A black frown was upon
Richard's forehead.

"She isn't coming!" he muttered. "I say, Sir Henry, you won't mind if we
leave early?"

"I shall be jolly glad to get away," Hunterleys assented heartily.

Then he suddenly felt a grip of iron upon his arm.

"She's come!" Richard murmured ecstatically. "Look at her, all in white!
Just look at the colour of her hair! There she is, going into the
reception room. Jove! I'm glad we are here, after all!"

Hunterleys smiled a little wearily. They passed on into the _salle a
manger_. The seats at the long dining-tables were not reserved, and they
found a little table for two in a corner, which they annexed. Hunterleys
was in a grim humour, but his companion was in the wildest spirits.
Considering that he was placed where he could see Mr. Grex and his
daughter nearly the whole of the time, he really did contrive to keep
his eyes away from them to a wonderful extent, but he talked of her
unceasingly.

"Say, I'm sorry for you, Sir Henry!" he declared. "It's just your bad
luck, being here with me while I've got this fit on, but I've got to
talk to some one, so you may as well make up your mind to it. There
never was anything like that girl upon the earth. There never was
anything like the feeling you get," he went on, "when you're absolutely
and entirely convinced, when you know--that there's just one girl who
counts for you in the whole universe. Gee whiz! It does get hold of you!
I suppose you've been through it all, though."

"Yes, I've been through it!" Hunterleys admitted, with a sigh.

The young man bit his lip. The story of Hunterleys' matrimonial
differences was already being whispered about. Richard talked polo
vigorously for the next quarter of an hour. It was not until the coffee
and liqueurs arrived that they returned to the subject of Miss Grex.
Then it was Hunterleys himself who introduced it. He was beginning to
rather like this big, self-confident young man, so full of his simple
love affair, so absolutely honest in his purpose, in his outlook upon
life.

"Lane," he said, "I have given you several hints during the day, haven't
I?"

"That's so," Richard agreed. "You've done your best to head me off. So
did my future father-in-law. Sort of hopeless task, I can assure you."

Hunterleys shook his head.

"Honestly," he continued, "I wouldn't let myself think too much about
her, Lane. I don't want to explain exactly what I mean. There's no real
reason why I shouldn't tell you what I know about Mr. Grex, but for a
good many people's sakes, it's just as well that those few of us who
know keep quiet. I am sure you trust me, and it's just the same,
therefore, if I tell you straight, as man to man, that you're only
laying up for yourself a store of unhappiness by fixing your thoughts so
entirely upon that young woman."

Richard, for all his sublime confidence, was a little staggered by the
other's earnestness.

"Look here," he said, "the girl isn't married, to start with?"

"Not that I know of," Hunterleys confessed.

"And she's not engaged because I've seen her left hand," Richard
proceeded. "I'm not one of those Americans who go shouting all over the
world that because I've got a few million dollars I am the equal of
anybody, but honestly, Sir Henry, there are a good many prejudices over
this side that you fellows lay too much store by. Grex may be a nobleman
in disguise. I don't care. I am a man. I can give her everything she
needs in life and I am not going to admit, even if she is an aristocrat,
that you croakers are right when you shake your heads and advise me to
give her up. I don't care who she is, Hunterleys. I am going to marry
her."

Hunterleys helped himself to a liqueur.

"Young man," he said, "in a sense I admire your independence. In
another, I think you've got all the conceit a man needs for this world.
Let us presume, for a moment, that she is, as you surmise, the daughter
of a nobleman. When it suits her father to throw off his incognito, she
is probably in touch with young men in the highest circles of many
countries. Why should you suppose that you can come along and cut them
all out?"

"Because I love her," the young man answered simply. "They don't."

"You must remember," Hunterleys resumed, "that all foreign noblemen are
not what they are represented to be in your comic papers. Austrian and
Russian men of high rank are most of them very highly cultivated, very
accomplished, and very good-looking. You don't know much of the world,
do you? It's a pretty formidable enterprise to come from a New York
office, with only Harvard behind you, and a year or so's travel as a
tourist, and enter the list against men who have had twice your
opportunities. I am talking to you like this, young fellow, for your
good. I hope you realise that. You're used to getting what you want.
That's because you've been brought up in a country where money can do
almost anything. I am behind the scenes here and I can assure you that
your money won't count for much with Mr. Grex."

"I never thought it would," Richard admitted. "I think when I talk to
her she'll understand that I care more than any of the others. If you
want to know the reason, that's why I'm so hopeful."

Monsieur le Directeur had risen to his feet. Some one had proposed his
health and he made a graceful little speech of acknowledgment. He
remained standing for a few minutes after the cheers which had greeted
his neat oratorical display had died away. The conclusion of his remarks
came as rather a surprise to his guests.

"I have to ask you, ladies and gentlemen," he announced, "with many,
many regrets, and begging you to forgive my apparent inhospitality, to
make your arrangements for leaving us as speedily as may be possible.
Our magnificent situation, with which I believe that most of you are
familiar, has but one drawback. We are subject to very dense mountain
mists, and alas! I have to tell you that one of these has come on most
unexpectedly and the descent must be made with the utmost care. Believe
me, there is no risk or any danger," he went on earnestly, "so long as
you instruct your chauffeurs to proceed with all possible caution. At
the same time, as there is very little chance of the mist becoming
absolutely dispelled before daylight, in your own interests I would
suggest that a start be made as soon as possible."

Every one rose at once, Richard and Hunterleys amongst them.

"This will test your skill to-night, young man," Hunterleys remarked.
"How's the nerve, eh?"

Richard smiled almost beatifically. For once he had allowed his eyes to
wander and he was watching the girl with golden hair who was at that
moment receiving the respectful homage of the director.

"Lunatics, and men who are head over heels in love," he declared, "never
come to any harm. You'll be perfectly safe with me."




X

IN THE MISTS


Their first glimpse of the night, as Hunterleys and Lane passed out
through the grudgingly opened door, was sufficiently disconcerting. A
little murmur of dismay broke from the assembled crowd. Nothing was to
be seen but a dense bank of white mist, through which shone the
brilliant lights of the automobiles waiting at the door. Monsieur le
Directeur hastened about, doing his best to reassure everybody.

"If I thought it was of the slightest use," he declared, "I would ask
you all to stay, but when the clouds once stoop like this, there is not
likely to be any change for twenty-four hours, and we have not, alas!
sleeping accommodation. If the cars are slowly driven and kept to the
inside, it is only a matter of a mile or two before you will drop below
the level of the clouds."

Hunterleys and Lane made their way out to the front, and with their coat
collars turned up, groped their way to the turf on the other side of the
avenue. From where they stood, looking downwards, the whole world seemed
wrapped in mysterious and somber silence. There was nothing to be seen
but the grey, driving clouds. In less than a minute their hair and
eyebrows were dripping. A slight breeze had sprung up, the cold was
intense.

"Cheerful sort of place, this," Lane remarked gloomily. "Shall we make a
start?"

Hunterleys hesitated.

"Not just yet. Look!"

He pointed downwards. For a moment the clouds had parted. Thousands of
feet below, like little pinpricks of red fire, they saw the lights of
Monte Carlo. Almost as they looked, the clouds closed up again. It was
as though they had peered into another world.

"Jove, that was queer!" Lane muttered. "Look! What's that?"

A long ray of sickly yellow light shone for a moment and was then
suddenly blotted out by a rolling mass of vapour. The clouds had closed
in again once more. The obscurity was denser than ever.

"The lighthouse," Hunterleys replied. "Do you think it's any use
waiting?"

"We'll go inside and put on our coats," Lane suggested. "My car is by
the side of the avenue there. I covered it over and left it."

They found their coats in the hall, wrapped themselves up and lit
cigarettes. Already many of the cars had started and vanished cautiously
into obscurity. Every now and then one could hear the tooting of their
horns from far away below. The chief steward was directing the
departures and insisting upon an interval of three minutes between each.
The two men stood on one side and watched him. He was holding open the
door of a large, exceptionally handsome car. On the other side was a
servant in white livery. Lane gripped his companion's arm.

"There she goes!" he exclaimed.

The girl, followed by Mr. Grex, stepped into the landaulette, which was
brilliantly illuminated inside with electric light. Almost immediately
the car glided noiselessly off. The two men watched it until it
disappeared. Then they crossed the road.

"Now then, Sir Henry," Richard observed grimly, as he turned the handle
of the car and they took their places in the little well-shaped space,
"better say your prayers. I'm going to drive slowly enough but it's an
awful job, this, crawling down the side of a mountain in the dark, with
nothing between you and eternity but your brakes."

They crept off. As far as the first turn the lights from the club-house
helped them. Immediately afterwards, however, the obscurity was
enveloping. Their faces were wet and shiny with moisture. Even the
fingers of Lane's gloves which gripped the wheel were sodden. He
proceeded at a snail's pace, keeping always on the inside of the road
and only a few inches from the wall or bank. Once he lost his way and
his front wheel struck a small stump, but they were going too slowly for
disaster. Another time he failed to follow the turn of the road and
found himself in a rough cart track. They backed with difficulty and got
right once more. At the fourth turn they came suddenly upon a huge car
which had left the road as they had done and was standing amongst the
pine trees, its lights flaring through the mist.

"Hullo!" Lane called out, coming to a standstill. "You've missed the
turn."

"My master is going to stay here all night," the chauffeur shouted back.

A man put his head from the window and began to talk in rapid French.

"It is inconceivable," he exclaimed, "that any one should attempt the
descent! We have rugs, my wife and I. We stay here till the clouds
pass."

"Good night, then!" Lane cried cheerfully.

"Not sure that you're not wise," Hunterleys added, with a shiver.

Twice they stopped while Lane rubbed the moisture from his gloves and
lit a fresh cigarette.

"This is a test for your nerve, young fellow," Hunterleys remarked. "Are
you feeling it?"

"Not in the least," Lane replied. "I can't make out, though, why that
steward made us all start at intervals of three minutes. Seems to me we
should have been better going together at this pace. Save any one from
getting lost, anyhow."

They crawled on for another twenty minutes. The routine was always the
same--a hundred yards or perhaps two, an abrupt turn and then a similar
distance the other way. They had one or two slight misadventures but
they made progress. Once, through a rift, they caught a momentary vision
of a carpet of lights at a giddy distance below.

"We'll make it all right," Lane declared, crawling around another
corner. "Gee! but this is the toughest thing in driving I've ever known!
I can do ninety with this car easier than I can do this three. Hullo,
some one else in trouble!"

Before them, in the middle of the road, a light was being slowly swung
backwards and forwards. Lane brought the car to a standstill. He had
scarcely done so when they were conscious of the sound of footsteps all
around them. The arms of both men were seized from behind. They were
addressed in guttural French.

"Messieurs will be pleased to descend."

"What the--what's wrong?" Lane demanded.

"Descend at once," was the prompt order.

By the light of the lantern which the speaker was holding, they caught a
glimpse of a dozen white faces and the dull gleam of metal from the
firearms which his companions were carrying. Hunterleys stepped out. An
escort of two men was at once formed on either side of him.

"Tell us what it's all about, anyhow?" he asked coolly.

"Nothing serious," the same guttural voice answered,--"a little affair
which will be settled in a few minutes. As for you, monsieur," the man
continued, turning to Lane, "you will drive your car slowly to the next
turn, and leave it there. Afterwards you will return with me."

Richard set his teeth and leaned over his wheel. Then it suddenly
flashed into his mind that Mr. Grex and his daughter were already
amongst the captured. He quickly abandoned his first instinct.

"With pleasure, monsieur," he assented. "Tell me when to stop."

He drove the car a few yards round the corner, past a line of others.
Their lights were all extinguished and the chauffeurs absent.

"This is a pleasant sort of picnic!" he grumbled, as he brought his car
to a standstill. "Now what do I do, monsieur?"

"You return with me, if you please," was the reply.

Richard stood, for a moment, irresolute. The idea of giving in without a
struggle was most distasteful to this self-reliant young American. Then
he realised that not only was his captor armed but that there were men
behind him and one on either side.

"Lead the way," he decided tersely.

They marched him up the hill, a little way across some short turf and
round the back of a rock to a long building which he remembered to have
noticed on his way up. His guide threw open the door and Richard looked
in upon a curious scene. Ranged up against the further wall were about a
dozen of the guests who had preceded him in his departure from the
Club-house. One man only had his hands tied behind him. The others,
apparently, were considered harmless. Mr. Grex was the one man, and
there was a little blood dripping from his right hand. The girl stood by
his side. She was no paler than usual--she showed, indeed, no signs of
terror at all--but her eyes were bright with indignation. One man was
busy stripping the jewels from the women and throwing them into a bag.
In the far corner the little group of chauffeurs was being watched by
two more men, also carrying firearms. Lane looked down the line of
faces. Lady Hunterleys was there, and by her side Draconmeyer.
Hunterleys was a little apart from the others. Freddy Montressor, who
was leaning against the wall, chuckled as Lane came in.

"So they've got you, too, Dicky, have they?" he remarked. "It's a
hold-up--a bully one, too. Makes one feel quite homesick, eh? How much
have you got on you?"

"Precious little, thank heavens!" Richard muttered.

His eyes were fixed upon the brigand who was collecting the jewels, and
who was now approaching Miss Grex. He felt something tingling in his
blood. One of the guests began to talk excitedly. The man who was
apparently the leader, and who was standing at the door with an electric
torch in one hand and a revolver in the other, stepped a little forward.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "once more I beg you not to be alarmed.
So long as you part with your valuables peaceably, you will be at
liberty to depart as soon as every one has been dealt with. If there is
no resistance, there will be no trouble. We do not wish to hurt any
one."

The collector of jewels had arrived in front of the girl. She unfastened
her necklace and handed it to him.

"The little pendant around my neck," she remarked calmly, "is valueless.
I desire to keep it."

"Impossible!" the man replied. "Off with it."

"But I insist!" she exclaimed. "It is an heirloom."

The man laughed brutally. His filthy hand was raised to her neck. Even
as he touched her, Lane, with a roar of anger, sent one of his guards
flying on to the floor of the barn, and, snatching the gun from his
hand, sprang forward.

"Come on, you fellows!" he shouted, bringing it down suddenly upon the
hand of the robber. "These things aren't loaded. There's only one of
these blackguards with a revolver."

[Illustration: "Come on, you fellows!" he shouted.]

"And I've got him!" Hunterleys, who had been watching Lane closely,
cried, suddenly swinging his arm around the man's neck and knocking his
revolver up.

There was a yell of pain from the man with the jewels, whose wrist Lane
had broken, a howl of dismay from the others--pandemonium.

"At 'em, Freddy!" Lane shouted, seizing the nearest of his assailants by
the neck and throwing him out into the darkness. "To hell with you!" he
added, just escaping a murderous blow and driving his fist into the face
of the man who had aimed it. "Good for you, Hunterleys! There isn't one
of those old guns of theirs that'll go off. They aren't even loaded."

The barn seemed suddenly to become half empty. Into the darkness the
little band of brigands crept away like rats. In less than half a minute
they had all fled, excepting the one who lay on the ground unconscious
from the effects of Richard's blow, and the leader of the gang, whom
Hunterleys still held by the throat. Richard, with a clasp-knife which
he had drawn from his pocket, cut the cord which they had tied around
Mr. Grex's wrists. His action, however, was altogether mechanical. He
scarcely glanced at what he was doing. Somehow or other, he found the
girl's hands in his.

"That brute--didn't touch you, did he?" he asked.

She looked at him. Whether the clouds were still outside or not, Lane
felt that he had passed into Heaven.

"He did not, thanks to you," she murmured. "But do you mean really that
those guns all the time weren't loaded?"

"I don't believe they were," Richard declared stoutly. "That chap kept
on playing about with the lock of his old musket and I felt sure that it
was of no use, loaded or not. Anyway, when I saw that brute try to
handle you--well--"

He stopped, with an awkward little laugh. Mr. Grex tapped a cigarette
upon his case and lit it.

"I am sure, my young friend, we are all very much indebted to you. The
methods which sometimes are scarcely politic in the ordinary affairs of
life," he continued drily, "are admirable enough in a case like this. We
will just help Hunterleys tie up the leader of the gang. A very plucky
stroke, that of his."

He crossed the barn. One of the women had fainted, others were busy
collecting their jewelry. The chauffeurs had hurried off to relight the
lamps of the cars.

"I must tell you this," Richard said, drawing a a little nearer to the
girl. "Please don't be angry with me. I went to your father this
afternoon. I made an idiot of myself--I couldn't help it. I was staring
at you and he noticed it. I didn't want him to think that I was such an
ill-mannered brute as I seemed. I tried to make him understand but he
wouldn't listen to me. I'd like to tell you now--now that I have the
opportunity--that I think you're just--"

She smiled very faintly.

"What is it that you wish to tell me?" she asked patiently.

"That I love you," he wound up abruptly.

There was a moment's silence, a silence with a background of strange
noises. People were talking, almost shouting to one another with
excitement. Newcomers were being told the news. The man whom Hunterleys
had captured was shrieking and cursing. From beyond came the tooting of
motor-horns as the cars returned. Lane heard nothing. He saw nothing but
the white face of the girl as she stood in the shadows of the barn, with
its walls of roughly threaded pine trunks.

"But I have scarcely ever spoken to you in my life!" she protested,
looking at him in astonishment.

"It doesn't make any difference," he replied. "You know I am speaking
the truth. I think, in your heart, that you, too, know that these things
don't matter, now and then. Of course, you don't--you couldn't feel
anything of what I feel, but with me it's there now and for always, and
I want to have a chance, just a chance to make you understand. I'm not
really mad. I'm just--in love with you."

She smiled at him, still in a friendly manner, but her face had clouded.
There was a look in her eyes almost of trouble, perhaps of regret.

"I am so sorry," she murmured. "It is only a sudden feeling on your
part, isn't it? You have been so splendid to-night that I can do no more
than thank you very, very much. And as for what you have told me, I
think it is an honour, but I wish you to forget it. It is not wise for
you to think of me in that way. I fear that I cannot even offer you my
friendship."

Again there was a brief silence. The clamour of exclamations from the
little groups of people still filled the air outside. They could hear
cars coming and going. The man whom Hunterleys and Mr. Grex were tying
up was still groaning and cursing.

"Are you married?" Richard asked abruptly.

She shook her head.

"Engaged?"

"No!"

"Do you care very much for any one else?"

"No!" she told him softly.

He drew her away.

"Come outside for one moment," he begged. "I hate to see you in the
place where that beast tried to lay hands upon you. Here is your
necklace."

He picked it up from her feet and she followed him obediently outside.
People were standing about, shadowy figures in little groups. Some of
the cars had already left, others were being prepared for a start.
Below, once more the clouds had parted and the lights twinkled like
fireflies through the trees. This time they could even see the lights
from the village of La Turbie, less brilliant but almost at their feet.
Richard glanced upwards. There was a star clearly visible.

"The clouds are lifting," he said. "Listen. If there is no one else,
tell me, why there shouldn't be the slightest chance for me? I am not
clever, I am nobody of any account, but I care for you so wonderfully. I
love you, I always shall love you, more than any one else could. I never
understood before, but I understand now. Just this caring means so
much."

She stood close to his side. Her manner at the same time seemed to
depress him and yet to fill him with hope.

"What is your name?" she enquired.

"Richard Lane," he told her. "I am an American."

"Then, Mr. Richard Lane," she continued softly, "I shall always think of
you and think of to-night and think of what you have said, and perhaps I
shall be a little sorry that what you have asked me cannot be."

"Cannot?" he muttered.

She shook her head almost sadly.

"Some day," she went on, "as soon as our stay in Monte Carlo is
finished, if you like, I will write and tell you the real reason, in
case you do not find it out before."

He was silent, looking downwards to where the gathering wind was driving
the clouds before it, to where the lights grew clearer and clearer at
every moment.

"Does it matter," he asked abruptly, "that I am rich--very rich?"

"It does not matter at all," she answered.

"Doesn't it matter," he demanded, turning suddenly upon her and speaking
with a new passion, almost a passion of resentment, "doesn't it matter
that without you life doesn't exist for me any longer? Doesn't it matter
that a man has given you his whole heart, however slight a thing it may
seem to you? What am I to do if you send me away? There isn't anything
left in life."

"There is what you have always found in it," she reminded him.

"There isn't," he replied fiercely. "That's just what there isn't. I
should go back to a world that was like a dead city."

He suddenly felt her hand upon his.

"Dear Mr. Lane," she begged, "wait for a little time before you nurse
these sad thoughts, and when you know how impossible what you ask is, it
will seem easier. But if you really care to hear something, if it would
really please you sometimes to think of it when you are alone and you
remember this little foolishness of yours, let me tell you, if I may,
that I am sorry--I am very sorry."

His hand was suddenly pressed, and then, before he could stop her, she
had glided away. He moved a step to follow her and almost at once he was
surrounded. Lady Hunterleys patted him on the shoulder.

"Really," she exclaimed, "you and Henry were our salvation. I haven't
felt so thrilled for ages. I only wish," she added, dropping her voice a
little, "that it might bring you the luck you deserve."

He answered vaguely. She turned back to Hunterleys. She was busy tearing
up her handkerchief.

"I am going to tie up your head," she said. "Please stoop down."

He obeyed at once. The side of his forehead was bleeding where a bullet
from the revolver of the man he had captured had grazed his temple.

"Too bad to trouble you," he muttered.

"It's the least we can do," she declared, laughing nervously. "Forgive
me if my fingers tremble. It is the excitement of the last few minutes."

Hunterleys stood quite still. Words seemed difficult to him just then.

"You were very brave, Henry," she said quietly. "Whom--whom are you
going down with?"

"I am with Richard Lane," he answered, "in his two-seated racer."

She bit her lip.

"I did not mean to come alone with Mr. Draconmeyer, really," she
explained. "He thought, up to the last moment, that his wife would be
well enough to come."

"Did he really believe so, do you think?" Hunterleys asked.

A voice intervened. Mr. Draconmeyer was standing by their side.

"Well," he said, "we might as well resume our journey. We all look and
feel, I think, as though we had been taking part in a scene from some
opera bouffe."

Lady Hunterleys shivered. She had drawn a little closer to her husband.
Her coat was unfastened. Hunterleys leaned towards her and buttoned it
with strong fingers up to her throat.

"Thank you," she whispered. "You wouldn't--you couldn't drive down with
us, could you?"

"Have you plenty of room?" he enquired.

"Plenty," she declared eagerly. "Mr. Draconmeyer and I are alone."

For a moment Hunterleys hesitated. Then he caught the smile upon the
face of the man he detested.

"Thank you," he said, "I don't think I can desert Lane."

She stiffened at once. Her good night was almost formal. Hunterleys
stepped into the car which Richard had brought up. There was just a
slight mist around them, but the whole country below, though chaotic,
was visible, and the lights on the hill-side, from La Turbie down to the
sea-board, were in plain sight.

"Our troubles," Hunterleys remarked, as they glided off, "seem to be
over."

"Maybe," Lane replied grimly. "Mine seem to be only just beginning!"






SIGNS OF TROUBLE


At ten o'clock the next morning, Hunterleys crossed the sunlit gardens
towards the English bank, to receive what was, perhaps, the greatest
shock of his life. A few minutes later he stood before the mahogany
counter, his eyes fixed upon the half sheet of notepaper which the
manager had laid before him. The words were few enough and simple
enough, yet they constituted for him a message written in the very ink
of tragedy. The notepaper was the notepaper of the Hotel de Paris, the
date the night before, the words few and unmistakable:

     To the Manager of the English Bank. Please hand my letters to
     bearer.

     HENRY HUNTERLEYS.

He read it over, letter by letter, word by word. Then at last he looked
up. His voice sounded, even to himself, unnatural.

"You were quite right," he said. "This order is a forgery."

The manager was greatly disturbed. He threw open the door of his private
office.

"Come and sit down for a moment, will you, Sir Henry?" he invited. "This
is a very serious matter, and I should like to discuss it with you."

They passed behind into the comfortable little sitting-room, smelling of
morocco leather and roses, with its single high window, its broad
writing-table, its carefully placed easy-chairs. Men had pleaded in here
with all the eloquence at their command, men of every rank and walk in
life, thieves, nobles, ruined men and pseudo-millionaires, always with
the same cry--money; money for the great pleasure-mill which day and
night drew in its own. Hunterleys sank heavily into a chair. The manager
seated himself in an official attitude before his desk.

"I am sorry to have distressed you with this letter, Sir Henry," he
said. "However, you must admit that things might have been worse. It is
fortunately our invariable custom, when letters are addressed to one of
our clients in our care, to deliver them to no one else under any
circumstances. If you had been ill, for instance, I should have brought
you your correspondence across to the hotel, but I should not have
delivered it to your own secretary. That, as I say, is our invariable
rule, and we find that it has saved many of our clients from
inconvenience. In your case," the manager concluded impressively, "your
communications being, in a sense, official, any such attempt as has been
made would not stand the slightest chance of success. We should be even
more particular than in any ordinary case to see that by no possible
chance could any correspondence addressed to you, fall into other
hands."

Hunterleys began to recover himself a little. He drew towards himself
the heap of letters which the manager had laid by his side.

"Please make yourself quite comfortable here," the latter begged. "Read
your letters and answer them, if you like, before you go out. I always
call this," he added, with a smile, "the one inviolable sanctuary of
Monte Carlo."

"You are very kind," Hunterleys replied. "Are you sure that I am not
detaining you?"

"Not in the least. Personally, I am not at all busy. Three-quarters of
our business, you see, is merely a matter of routine. I was just going
to shut myself up here and read the _Times_. Have a cigarette? Here's an
envelope opener and a waste-paper basket. Make yourself comfortable."

Hunterleys glanced through his correspondence, rapidly reading and
destroying the greater portion of it. He came at last to two parchment
envelopes marked "On His Majesty's Service." These he opened and read
their contents slowly and with great care. When he had finished, he
produced a pair of scissors from his waistcoat pocket and cut the
letters into minute fragments. He drew a little sigh of relief when at
last their final destruction was assured, and rose shortly afterwards to
his feet.

"I shall have to go on to the telegraph office," he said, "to send these
few messages. Thank you very much, Mr. Harrison, for your kindness. If
you do not mind, I should like to take this forged order away with me."

The manager hesitated.

"I am not sure that I ought to part with it," he observed doubtfully.

"Could you recognise the person who presented it--you or your clerk?"

The manager shook his head.

"Not a chance," he replied. "It was brought in, unfortunately, before I
arrived. Young Parsons, who was the only one in the bank, explained that
letters were never delivered to an order, and turned away to attend to
some one else who was in a hurry. He simply remembers that it was a man,
and that is all."

"Then the document is useless to you," Hunterleys pointed out. "You
could never do anything in the matter without evidence of
identification, and that being so, if you don't mind I should like to
have it."

Mr. Harrison yielded it up.

"As you wish," he agreed. "It is interesting, if only as a curiosity.
The imitation of your signature is almost perfect."

Hunterleys took up his hat. Then for a moment, with his hand upon the
door, he hesitated.

"Mr. Harrison," he said, "I am engaged just now, as you have doubtless
surmised, in certain investigations on behalf of the usual third party
whom we need not name. Those investigations have reached a pitch which
might possibly lead me into a position of some--well, I might almost say
danger. You and I both know that there are weapons in this place which
can be made use of by persons wholly without scruples, which are
scarcely available at home. I want you to keep your eyes open. I have
very few friends here whom I can wholly trust. It is my purpose to call
in here every morning at ten o'clock for my letters, and if I fail to
arrive within half-an-hour of that time without having given you verbal
notice, something will have happened to me. You understand what I mean?"

"You mean that you are threatened with assassination?" the manager asked
gravely.

"Practically it amounts to that," Hunterleys admitted. "I received a
warning letter this morning. There is a very important matter on foot
here, Mr. Harrison, a matter so important that to bring it to a
successful conclusion I fancy that those who are engaged in it would not
hesitate to face any risk. I have wired to England for help. If anything
happens that it comes too late, I want you, when you find that I have
disappeared, even if my disappearance is only a temporary matter, to let
them know in London--you know how--at once."

The manager nodded.

"I will do so," he promised. "I trust, however," he went on, "that you
are exaggerating the danger. Mr. Billson lived here for many years
without any trouble."

Hunterleys smiled slightly.

"I am not a Secret Service man," he explained. "Billson's successor
lives here now, of course, and is working with me, under the usual guise
of newspaper correspondent. I don't think that he will come to any harm.
But I am here in a somewhat different position, and my negotiations in
the east, during the last few weeks, have made me exceedingly unpopular
with some very powerful people. However, it is only an outside chance,
of course, that I wish to guard against. I rely upon you, if I should
fail to come to the bank any one morning without giving you notice, to
do as I have asked."

Hunterleys left the bank and walked out once more into the sunlight. He
first of all made his way down to the Post Office, where he rapidly
dispatched several cablegrams which he had coded and written out in Mr.
Harrison's private office. Afterwards he went on to the Terrace, and
finding a retired seat at the further end, sat down. Then he drew the
forged order once more from his pocket. Word by word, line by line, he
studied it, and the more he studied it, the more hopeless the whole
thing seemed. The handwriting, with the exception of the signature,
which was a wonderful imitation of his own, was the handwriting of his
wife. She had done this thing at Draconmeyer's instigation, done this
thing against her husband, taken sides absolutely with the man whom he
had come to look upon as his enemy! What inference was he to draw? He
sat there, looking out over the Mediterranean, soft and blue, glittering
with sunlight, breaking upon the yellow stretch of sand in little
foam-flecked waves no higher than his hand. He watched the sunlight
glitter on the white houses which fringed the bay. He looked idly up at
the trim little vineyards on the brown hill-side. It was the beauty spot
of the world. There was no object upon which his eyes could rest, which
was not beautiful. The whole place was like a feast of colour and form
and sunshine. Yet for him the light seemed suddenly to have faded from
life. Danger had only stimulated him, had helped him to cope with the
dull pain which he had carried about with him during the last few
months. He was face to face now with something else. It was worse, this,
than anything he had dreamed. Somehow or other, notwithstanding the
growing estrangement with his wife which had ended in their virtual
separation, he had still believed in her, still had faith in her, still
had hope of an ultimate reconciliation. And behind it all, he had loved
her. It seemed at that moment that a nightmare was being formed around
him. A new horror was creeping into his thoughts. He had felt from the
first a bitter dislike of Draconmeyer. Now, however, he realised that
this feeling had developed into an actual and harrowing jealousy. He
realised that the man was no passive agent. It was Draconmeyer who, with
subtle purpose, was drawing his wife away! Hunterleys sprang to his feet
and walked angrily backwards and forwards along the few yards of
Terrace, which happened at that moment to be almost deserted. Vague
plans of instant revenge upon Draconmeyer floated into his mind. It was
simple enough to take the law into his own hands, to thrash him
publicly, to make Monte Carlo impossible for him. And then, suddenly, he
remembered his duty. They were trusting him in Downing Street. Chance
had put into his hands so many threads of this diabolical plot. It was
for him to checkmate it. He was the only person who could checkmate it.
This was no time for him to think of personal revenge, no time for him
to brood over his own broken life. There was work still to be done--his
country's work....

He felt the need of change of scene. The sight of the place with its
placid, enervating beauty, its constant appeal to the senses, was
beginning to have a curious effect upon his nerves. He turned back upon
the Terrace, and by means of the least frequented streets he passed
through the town and up towards the hills. He walked steadily, reckless
of time or direction. He had lunch at a small inn high above the road
from Cannes, and it was past three o'clock when he turned homewards. He
had found his way into the main road now and he trudged along heedless
of the dust with which the constant procession of automobiles covered
him all the while. The exercise had done him good. He was able to keep
his thoughts focussed upon his mission. So far, at any rate, he had held
his own. His dispatches to London had been clear and vivid. He had told
them exactly what he had feared, he had shown them the inside of this
scheme as instinct had revealed it to him, and he had begged for aid.
One man alone, surrounded by enemies, and in a country where all things
were possible, was in a parlous position if once the extent of his
knowledge were surmised. So far, the plot had not yet matured. So far,
though the clouds had gathered and the thunder was muttering, the storm
had not broken. The reason for that he knew--the one person needed, the
one person for whose coming all these plans had been made, had not yet
arrived. There was no telling, however, how long the respite might last.
At any moment might commence this conference, whose avowed purpose was
to break at a single blow, a single treacherous but deadly blow, the
Empire whose downfall Selingman had once publicly declared was the one
great necessity involved by his country's expansion....

Hunterleys quenched his thirst at a roadside cafe, sitting out upon the
pavement and drinking coarse red wine and soda-water. Then he bought a
packet of black cigarettes and continued his journey. He was within
sight of Monte Carlo when for the twentieth time he had to step to the
far side of the pathway to avoid being smothered in dust by an advancing
automobile. This time, by some chance, he glanced around, attracted by
the piercing character of its long-distance whistle. A high-powered grey
touring car came by, travelling at a great pace. Hunterleys stood
perfectly rigid, one hand grasping the wall by the side of which he
stood. Notwithstanding his spectacles and the thick coating of dust upon
his clothes, the solitary passenger of the car was familiar enough to
him. It was the man for whom this plot had been prepared. It was Paul
Douaille, the great Foreign Minister into whose hands even the most
cautious of Premiers had declared himself willing to place the destinies
of his country!

Hunterleys pursued the road no longer. He took a ticket at the next
station and hurried back to Monte Carlo. He went first to his room,
bathed and changed, and, passing along the private passage, made his way
into the Sporting Club. The first person whom he saw, seated in her
accustomed place at her favourite table, was his wife. She beckoned him
to come over to her. There was a vacant chair by her side to which she
pointed.

"Thank you," he said, "I won't sit down. I don't think that I care to
play just now. You are fortunate this afternoon, I trust?"

Something in his face and tone checked that rush of altered feeling of
which she had been more than once passionately conscious since the night
before.

"I am hideously out of luck," she confessed slowly. "I have been losing
all day. I think that I shall give it up."

She rose wearily to her feet and he felt a sudden compassion for her.
She was certainly looking tired. Her eyes were weary, she had the air of
an unhappy woman. After all, perhaps she too sometimes knew what
loneliness was.

"I should like some tea so much," she added, a little piteously.

He opened his lips to invite her to pass through into the restaurant
with him. Then the memory of that forged order still in his pocket,
flashed into his mind. He hesitated. A cold, familiar voice at his elbow
intervened.

"Are you quite ready for tea, Lady Hunterleys? I have been in and taken
a table near the window."

Hunterleys moved at once on one side. Draconmeyer bowed pleasantly.

"Cheerful time we had last night, hadn't we?" he remarked. "Glad to see
your knock didn't lay you up."

Hunterleys disregarded his wife's glance. He was suddenly furious.

"All Monte Carlo seems to be gossiping about that little contretemps,"
Draconmeyer continued. "It was a crude sort of hold-up for a
neighbourhood of criminals, but it very nearly came off. Will you have
some tea with us?"

"Do, Henry," his wife begged.

Once again he hesitated. Somehow or other, he felt that the moment was
critical. Then a hand was laid quietly upon his arm, a man's voice
whispered in his ear.

"Monsieur will be so kind as to step this way for a moment--a little
matter of business."

"Who are you?" Hunterleys demanded.

"The Commissioner of Police, at monsieur's service."




I

HINTS TO HUNTERLEYS


Hunterleys, in accordance with his request, followed the Commissioner
downstairs into one of the small private rooms on the ground floor. The
latter was very polite but very official.

"Now what is it that you want?" Hunterleys asked, a little brusquely, as
soon as they were alone.

The representative of the law was distinctly mysterious. He had a brown
moustache which he continually twirled, and he was all the time dropping
his voice to a whisper.

"My first introduction to you should explain my mission, Sir Henry," he
said. "I hold a high position in the police here. My business with you,
however, is on behalf of a person whom I will not name, but whose
identity you will doubtless guess."

"Very well," Hunterleys replied. "Now what is the nature of this
mission, please? In plain words, what do you want with me?"

"I am here with reference to the affair of last night," the other
declared.

"The affair of last night?" Hunterleys repeated, frowning. "Well, we all
have to appear or be represented before the magistrates to-morrow
morning. I shall send a lawyer."

"Quite so! Quite so! But in the meantime, something has transpired. You
and the young American, Mr. Richard Lane, were the only two who offered
any resistance. It was owing to you two, in fact, that the plot was
frustrated. I am quite sure, Sir Henry, that every one agrees with me in
appreciating your courage and presence of mind."

"Thank you," Hunterleys replied. "Is that what you came to say?"

The other shook his head.

"Unfortunately, no, monsieur! I am here to bring you certain
information. The chief of the gang, Armand Martin, the man whom you
attacked, became suddenly worse a few hours ago. The doctors suspect
internal injuries, injuries inflicted during his struggle with you."

"I am very sorry to hear it," Hunterleys said coolly. "On the other
hand, he asked for anything he got."

"Unfortunately," the Commissioner continued, "the law of the State is
curiously framed in such matters. If the man should die, as seems more
than likely, your legal position, Sir Henry, would be most
uncomfortable. Your arrest would be a necessity, and there is no law
granting what I believe you call bail to a person directly or indirectly
responsible for the death of another. I am here, therefore, to give you
what I may term an official warning. Your absence as a witness to-morrow
morning will not be commented upon--events of importance have called you
back to England. You will thereby be saved a very large amount of
annoyance, and the authorities here will be spared the most regrettable
necessity of having to deal with you in a manner unbefitting your rank."

Hunterleys became at once thoughtful. The whole matter was becoming
clear to him.

"I see," he observed. "This is a warning to me to take my departure. Is
that so?"

The Commissioner beamed and nodded many times.

"You have a quick understanding, Sir Henry," he declared. "Your
departure to-night, or early to-morrow morning, would save a good deal
of unpleasantness. I have fulfilled my mission, and I trust that you
will reflect seriously upon the matter. It is the wish of the high
personage whom I represent, that no inconvenience whatever should befall
so distinguished a visitor to the Principality. Good day, monsieur!"

The official took his leave with a sweep of the hat and many bows.
Hunterleys, after a brief hesitation, walked out into the sun-dappled
street. It was the most fashionable hour of the afternoon. Up in the
square a band was playing. Outside, two or three smart automobiles were
discharging their freight of wonderfully-dressed women and debonair men
from the villas outside. Suddenly a hand fell upon his arm. It was
Richard Lane who greeted him.

"Say, where are you off to, Sir Henry?" he inquired.

Hunterleys laughed a little shortly.

"Really, I scarcely know," he replied. "Back to London, if I am wise, I
suppose."

"Come into the Club," Richard begged.

"I have just left," Hunterleys told him. "Besides, I hate the place."

"Did you happen to notice whether Mr. Grex was in there?" Richard
enquired.

"I didn't see him," Hunterleys answered. "Neither," he added
significantly, "did I see Miss Grex."

"Well, I am going in to have a look round, anyway," Richard decided.
"You might come along. There's nothing else to do in this place until
dinner-time."

Hunterleys suffered himself to be persuaded and remounted the steps.

"Tell me, Lane," he asked curiously, "have you heard anything about any
of the victims of our little struggle last night--I mean the two men we
tackled?"

Richard shook his head.

"I hear that mine has a broken wrist," he said. "Can't say I am feeling
very badly about that!"

"I've just been told that mine is going to die," Hunterleys continued.

The young man laughed incredulously.

"Why, I went over the prison this morning," he declared. "I never saw
such a healthy lot of ruffians in my life. That chap whom you
tackled--the one with the revolver--was smoking cigarettes and using
language--well, I couldn't understand it all, but what I did understand
was enough to melt the bars of his prison."

"That's odd," Hunterleys remarked drily. "According to the police
commissioner who has just left me, the man is on his death-bed, and my
only chance of escaping serious trouble is to get out of Monte Carlo
to-night."

"Are you going?"

Hunterleys shook his head.

"It would take a great deal more than that to move me just now," he
said, "even if I had not suspected from the first that the man was
lying."

Richard glanced at his companion a little curiously.

"I shouldn't have said that you were having such a good time, Sir
Henry," he observed; "in fact I should have thought you would have been
rather glad of an opportunity to slip away."

Hunterleys looked around them. They had reached the top of the staircase
and were in sight of the dense crowd in the rooms.

"Come and have a drink," he suggested. "A great many of these people
will have cleared off presently."

"I'll have a drink, with pleasure," Richard answered, "but I still can't
see why you're stuck on this place."

They strolled into the bar and found two vacant places.

"My dear young friend," Hunterleys said, as he ordered their drinks, "if
you were an Englishman instead of an American, I think that I would give
you a hint as to the reason why I do not wish to leave Monte Carlo just
at present."

"Can't see what difference that makes," Richard declared. "You know I'm
all for the old country."

"I wonder whether you are," Hunterleys remarked thoughtfully. "I tell
you frankly that if I thought you meant it, I should probably come to
you before long for a little help."

"If ever you do, I'm your man," Richard assured him heartily. "Any more
scraps going?"

Hunterleys sipped his whisky and soda thoughtfully. There had been an
exodus from the room to watch some heavy gambling at _Trente et
Quarante_, and for a moment they were almost alone.

"Lane," he said, "I am going to take you a little into my confidence. In
a way I suppose it is foolish, but to tell you the truth, I am almost
driven to it. You know that I am a Member of Parliament, and you may
have heard that if our Party hadn't gone out a few years ago, I was to
have been Foreign Minister."

"I've heard that often enough," Lane assented. "I've heard you quoted,
too, as an example of the curse of party politics. Just because you are
forced to call yourself a member of one Party you are debarred from
serving your country in any capacity until that Party is in power."

"That's quite true," Hunterleys admitted, "and to tell you the truth,
ridiculous though it seems, I don't see how you're to get away from it
in a practical manner. Anyhow, when my people came out I made up my mind
that I wasn't going to just sit still in Opposition and find fault all
the time, especially as we've a real good man at the Foreign Office. I
was quite content to leave things in his hands, but then, you see,
politically that meant that there was nothing for me to do. I thought
matters over and eventually I paired for six months and was supposed to
go off for the benefit of my health. As a matter of fact, I have been in
the Balkan States since Christmas," he added, dropping his voice a
little.

"What the dickens have you been doing there?"

"I can't tell you that exactly," Hunterleys replied. "Unfortunately, my
enemies are suspicious and they have taken to watching me closely. They
pretty well know what I am going to tell you--that I have been out there
at the urgent request of the Secret Service Department of the present
Government. I have been in Greece and Servia and Roumania, and, although
I don't think there's a soul in the world knows, I have also been in St.
Petersburg."

"But what's it all about?" Richard persisted. "What have you been doing
in all these places?"

"I can only answer you broadly," Hunterleys went on. "There is a
perfectly devilish scheme afloat, directed against the old country. I
have been doing what I can to counteract it. At the last moment, just as
I was leaving Sofia for London, by the merest chance I discovered that
the scene for the culmination of this little plot was to be Monte Carlo,
so I made my way round by Trieste, stayed at Bordighera and San Remo for
a few days to put people off, and finally turned up here."

"Well, I'm jiggered!" Lane muttered. "And I thought you were just
hanging about for your health or because your wife was here, and were
bored to death for want of something to do."

"On the contrary," Hunterleys assured him, "I was up all night sending
reports home--very interesting reports, too. I got them away all right,
but there's no denying the fact that there are certain people in Monte
Carlo at the present moment who suspect my presence here, and who would
go to any lengths whatever to get rid of me. It isn't the actual harm I
might do, but they have to deal with a very delicate problem and to make
a bargain with a very sensitive person, and they are terribly afraid
that my presence here, and a meeting between me and that person, might
render all their schemes abortive."

Richard's face was a study in astonishment.

"Well," he exclaimed, "this beats everything! I've read of such things,
of course, but one only half believes them. Right under our very noses,
too! Say, what are you going to do about it, Sir Henry?"

"There is only one thing I can do," Hunterleys replied grimly. "I am
bound to keep my place here. They'll drive me out if they can. I am
convinced that the polite warning I have received to leave Monaco this
afternoon because of last night's affair, is part of the conspiracy. In
plain words, I've got to stick it out."

"But what good are you doing here, anyway?"

Hunterleys smiled and glanced carefully around the room. They were still
free from any risk of being overheard.

"Well," he said, "perhaps you will understand my meaning more clearly if
I tell you that I am the brains of a counterplot. The English Secret
Service has a permanent agent here under the guise of a newspaper
correspondent, who is in daily touch with me, and he in his turn has
several spies at work. I am, however, the dangerous person. The others
are only servants. They make their reports, but they don't understand
their true significance. If these people could remove me before any one
else could arrive to take my place, their chances of bringing off their
coup here would be immensely improved."

"I suppose it's useless for me to ask if there's anything I can do to
help?" Richard enquired.

"You've helped already," Hunterleys replied. "I have been nearly three
months without being able to open my lips to a soul. People call me
secretive, but I feel very human sometimes. I know that not a word of
what I have said will pass your lips."

"Not a chance of it," Richard promised earnestly. "But look here, can't
I do something? If I am not an Englishman, I'm all for the Anglo-Saxons.
I hate these foreigners--that is to say the men," he corrected himself
hastily.

Hunterleys smiled.

"Well, I was coming to that," he said. "I do feel hideously alone here,
and what I would like you to do is just this. I would like you to call
at my room at the Hotel de Paris, number 189, every morning at a certain
fixed hour--say half-past ten. Just shake hands with me--that's all.
Nothing shall prevent my being visible to you at that hour. Under no
consideration whatever will I leave any message that I am engaged or
have gone out. If I am not to be seen when you make your call, something
has happened to me."

"And what am I to do then?"

"That is the point," Hunterleys continued. "I don't want to bring you
too deeply into this matter. All that you need do is to make your way to
the English Bank, see Mr. Harrison, the manager, and tell him of your
fruitless visit to me. He will give you a letter to my wife and will
know what other steps to take."

"Is that all?" Richard asked, a little disappointed. "You don't
anticipate any scrapping, or anything of that sort?"

"I don't know what to anticipate," Hunterleys confessed, a little
wearily. "Things are moving fast now towards the climax. I promise I'll
come to you for help if I need it. You can but refuse."

"No fear of my refusing," Richard declared heartily. "Not on your life,
sir!"

Hunterleys rose to his feet with an appreciative little nod. It was
astonishing how cordially he had come to feel towards this young man,
during the last few hours.

"I'll let you off now," he said. "I know you want to look around the
tables and see if any of our friends of last night are to be found. I,
too, have a little affair which I ought to have treated differently a
few minutes ago. We'll meet later."

Hunterleys strolled back into the rooms. He came almost at once face to
face with Draconmeyer, whom he was passing with unseeing eyes.
Draconmeyer, however, detained him.

"I was looking for you, Sir Henry!" he exclaimed. "Can you spare me one
moment?"

They stood a little on one side, out of the way of the moving throng of
people. Draconmeyer was fingering nervously his tie of somewhat vivid
purple. His manner was important.

"Do you happen, Sir Henry," he asked, "to have had any word from the
prison authorities to-day?"

Hunterleys nodded.

"I have just received a message," he replied. "I understand that the man
with whom I had a struggle last night has received some internal
injuries and is likely to die."

Draconmeyer's manner became more mysterious. He glanced around the room
as though to be sure that they were not overheard.

"I trust, Sir Henry," he said, "that you will not think me in any way
presumptuous if I speak to you intimately. I have never had the
privilege of your friendship, and in this unfortunate disagreement
between your wife and yourself I have been compelled to accept your
wife's point of view, owing to the friendship between Mrs. Draconmeyer
and herself. I trust you will believe, however, that I have no feelings
of hostility towards you."

"You are very kind," Hunterleys murmured.

His face seemed set in graven lines. For all the effect the other's
words had upon him, he might have been wearing a mask.

"The law here in some respects is very curious," Draconmeyer continued.
"Some of the statutes have been unaltered for a thousand years. I have
been given to understand by a person who knows, that if this man should
die, notwithstanding the circumstances of the case, you might find
yourself in an exceedingly awkward position. If I might venture,
therefore, to give you a word of disinterested advice, I would suggest
that you return to England at once, if only for a week or so."

His eyes had narrowed. Through his spectacles he was watching intently
for the effect of his words. Hunterleys, however, only nodded
thoughtfully, as though to some extent impressed by the advice he had
received.

"Very likely you are right," he admitted. "I will discuss the matter
with my wife."

"She is playing over there," Draconmeyer pointed out. "And while we are
talking in a more or less friendly fashion," he went on earnestly,
"might I give you just one more word of counsel? For the sake of the
friendship which exists between our wives, I feel sure you will believe
that I am disinterested."

He paused. Hunterleys' expression was now one of polite interest. He
waited, however, for the other to continue.

"I wish that you could persuade Lady Hunterleys to play for somewhat
lower stakes."

Hunterleys was genuinely startled for a moment.

"Do you mean that my wife is gambling beyond her means?" he asked.

Draconmeyer shrugged his shoulders.

"How can I tell that? I don't know what her means are, or yours. I only
know that she changes mille notes more often than I change louis, and it
seems to me that her luck is invariably bad. I think, perhaps, just a
word or two from you, who have the right to speak, might be of service."

"I am very much obliged to you for the hint," Hunterleys said smoothly.
"I will certainly mention the matter to her."

"And if I don't see you again," Draconmeyer concluded, watching him
closely, "good-bye!"

Hunterleys did not appear to notice the tentative movement of the
other's hand. He was already on his way to the spot where his wife was
sitting. Draconmeyer watched his progress with inscrutable face.
Selingman, who had been sitting near, rose and joined him.

"Will he go?" he whispered. "Will our friend take this very reasonable
hint and depart?"

Draconmeyer's eyes were still fixed upon Hunterleys' slim,
self-possessed figure. His forehead was contorted into a frown. Somehow
or other, he felt that during their brief interview he had failed to
score; he had felt a subtle, underlying note of contempt in Hunterleys'
manner, in his whole attitude.

"I do not know," he replied grimly. "I only hope that if he stays, we
shall find the means to make him regret it!"




II

"I CANNOT GO!"


Hunterleys stood for several minutes, watching his wife's play from a
new point of view. She was certainly playing high and with continued
ill-fortune. For the first time, too, he noticed symptoms which
disturbed him. She sat quite motionless, but there was an unfamiliar
glitter in her eyes and a hardness about her mouth. It was not until he
had stood within a few feet of her for nearly a quarter of an hour, that
she chanced to see him.

"Did you want me?" she asked, with a little start.

"There is no hurry," he replied. "If you could spare me a few moments
later, I should be glad."

She rose at once, thrusting her notes and gold into the satchel which
she was carrying, and stood by his side. She was very elegantly dressed
in black and white, but she was pale, and, watching her with a new
intentness, he discovered faint violet lines under her eyes, as though
she had been sleeping ill.

"I am rather glad you came," she said. "I was having an abominable run
of bad luck, and yet I hated to give up my seat without an excuse. What
did you want, Henry?"

"I should like," he explained, "to talk to you for a quarter of an hour.
This place is rather crowded and it is getting on my nerves. We seem to
live here, night and day. Would you object to driving with me--say as
far as Mentone and back?"

"I will come if you wish it," she answered, looking a little surprised.
"Wait while I get my cloak."

Hunterleys hired an automobile below and they drove off. As soon as they
were out of the main street, he thrust his hand into the breast-pocket
of his coat and smoothed out that half-sheet of notepaper upon his knee.

"Violet," he said, "please read that."

She read the few lines instructing the English Bank to hand over Sir
Henry Hunterleys' letters to the bearer. Then she looked up at him with
a puzzled frown.

"I don't understand."

"Did you write that?" he enquired.

She looked at him indignantly.

"What an absurd question!" she exclaimed. "Your correspondence has no
interest for me."

Her denial, so natural, so obviously truthful, was a surprise to him. He
felt a sudden impulse of joy, mingled with shame. Perhaps, after all, he
had been altogether too censorious. Once more he directed her attention
to the sheet of paper. There was a marked change in his voice and
manner.

"Violet," he begged, "please look at it. Accepting without hesitation
your word that you did not write it, doesn't it occur to you that the
body of the letter is a distinct imitation of your handwriting, and the
signature a very clever forgery of mine?"

"It is rather like my handwriting," she admitted, "and as for the
signature, do you mean to say really that that is not yours?"

"Certainly not," he assured her. "The whole thing is a forgery."

"But who in the world should want to get your letters?" she asked
incredulously. "And why should you have them addressed to the bank?"

He folded up the paper then and put it in his pocket.

"Violet," he said earnestly, "for the disagreements which have resulted
in our separation I may myself have been to some extent responsible, but
we have promised one another not to refer to them again and I will not
break our compact. All I can say is that there is much in my life which
you know little of, and for which you do not, therefore, make sufficient
allowance."

"Then you might have treated me," she declared, "with more confidence."

"It was not possible," he reminded her, "so long as you chose to make an
intimate friend of a man whose every interest in life is in direct
antagonism to mine."

"Mr. Draconmeyer?"

"Mr. Draconmeyer," he assented.

She smiled contemptuously.

"You misunderstand Mr. Draconmeyer completely," she insisted. "He is
your well-wisher and he is more than half an Englishman. It was he who
started the league between English and German commercial men for the
propagation of peace. He formed one of the deputation who went over to
see the Emperor. He has done more, both by his speeches and letters to
the newspaper, to promote a good understanding between Germany and
England, than any other person. You are very much mistaken about Mr.
Draconmeyer, Henry. Why you cannot realise that he is simply an ordinary
commercial man of high intelligence and most agreeable manners, I cannot
imagine."

"The fact remains, my dear Violet," Hunterleys said emphatically, "that
it is not possible for me to treat you with the confidence I might
otherwise have done, on account of your friendship with Mr.
Draconmeyer."

"You are incorrigible!" she exclaimed. "Can we change the subject,
please? I want to know why you showed me that forged letter?"

"I am coming to that," he told her. "Please be patient. I want to remind
you of something else. So far as I remember, my only request, when I
gave you your liberty and half my income, was that your friendship with
the Draconmeyers should decrease. Almost the first persons I see on my
arrival in Monte Carlo are you and Mr. Draconmeyer. I learn that you
came out with them and that you are staying at the same hotel."

"Your wish was an unreasonable one," she protested. "Linda and I were
school-girls together. She is my dearest friend and she is a hopeless
invalid. I think that if I were to desert her she would die."

"I have every sympathy with Mrs. Draconmeyer," he said slowly, "but you
are my wife. I am going to make one more effort--please don't be
uneasy--not to re-establish any relationship between us, but to open
your eyes as to the truth concerning Mr. Draconmeyer. You asked me a
moment ago why I had shown you that forged letter. I will tell you now.
It was Draconmeyer who was the forger."

She leaned back in her seat. She was looking at him incredulously.

"You mean to say that Mr. Draconmeyer wrote that order--that he wanted
to get possession of your letters?"

"Not only that," Hunterleys continued, "but he carried out the business
in such a devilish manner as to make me for a moment believe that it was
you who had helped him. You are wrong about Draconmeyer. The man is a
great schemer, who under the pretence of occupying an important
commercial position in the City of London, is all the time a secret
agent of Germany. He is there in her interests. He studies the public
opinion of the country. He dissects our weaknesses. He is there to point
out the best methods and the opportune time for the inevitable struggle.
He is the worst enemy to-day England has. You think that he is here in
Monte Carlo on a visit of pleasure--for the sake of his wife, perhaps.
Nothing of the sort! He is here at this moment associated with an
iniquitous scheme, the particulars of which I can tell you nothing of.
Furthermore, I repeat what I told you on our first meeting here--that in
his still, cold way he is in love with you."

"Henry!" she cried.

"I cannot see how you can remain so wilfully blind," Hunterleys
continued. "I know the man inside out. I warned you against him in
London, I warn you against him now. This forged letter was designed to
draw us further apart. The little brown man who has dogged your
footsteps is a spy employed by him to make you believe that I was having
you watched. You are free still to act as you will, Violet, but if you
have a spark of regard for me or yourself, you will go back to London at
once and drop this odious friendship."

She leaned back in the car. They had turned round now and were on the
way back to Monte Carlo by the higher road. She sat with her eyes fixed
upon the mountains. Her heart, in a way, had been touched, her
imagination stirred by her husband's words. She felt a return of that
glow of admiration which had thrilled her on the previous night, when he
and Richard Lane alone amongst that motley company had played the part
of men. A curious, almost pathetic wistfulness crept into her heart. If
only he would lean towards her at that moment, if she could see once
more the light in his eyes that had shone there during the days of their
courtship! If only he could remember that it was still his part to play
the lover! If he could be a little less grave, a little less hopelessly
correct and fair! Despite her efforts to disbelieve, there was something
convincing about his words. At any moment during that brief space of
time, a single tremulous word, even a warm clasp of the hand, would have
brought her into his arms. But so much of inspiration was denied him. He
sat waiting for her decision with an eagerness of which he gave no sign.
Nevertheless, the fates were fighting for him. She thought gratefully,
even at that moment, yet with less enthusiasm than ever before, of the
devout homage, the delightful care for her happiness and comfort, the
atmosphere of security with which Draconmeyer seemed always to surround
her. Yet all this was cold and unsatisfying, a poor substitute for the
other things. Henry had been different once. Perhaps it was jealousy
which had altered him. Perhaps his misconception of Draconmeyer's
character had affected his whole outlook. She turned towards him, and
her voice, when she spoke, was no longer querulous.

"Henry," she said, "I cannot admit the truth of all that you say
concerning Mr. Draconmeyer, but tell me this. If I were willing to leave
this place to-night--"

She paused. For some reason a sudden embarrassment had seized her. The
words seemed to come with difficulty. She turned ever so slightly away
from him. There was a tinge of colour at last in her pale cheeks. She
seemed to him now, as she leaned a little forward in her seat,
completely beautiful.

"If I make my excuses and leave Monte Carlo to-night," she went on,
"will you come with me?"

He gave a little start. Something in his eyes flashed an answer into her
face. And then the flood of memory came. There was his mission. He was
tied hand and foot.

"It is good of you to offer that, Violet," he declared. "If I could--if
only I could!"

Already her manner began to change. The fear of his refusal was hateful,
her lips were trembling.

"You mean," she faltered, "that you will not come? Listen. Don't
misunderstand me. I will order my boxes packed, I will catch the eight
o'clock train either through to London or to Paris--anywhere. I will do
that if you will come. There is my offer. That is my reply to all that
you have said about Mr. Draconmeyer. I shall lose a friend who has been
gentleness and kindness and consideration itself. I will risk that. What
do you say? Will you come?"

"Violet, I cannot," he replied hoarsely. "No, don't turn away like
that!" he begged. "Don't change so quickly, please! It isn't fair.
Listen. I am not my own master."

"Not your own master?" she repeated incredulously. "What do you mean?"

"I mean that I am here in Monte Carlo not for my own pleasure. I mean
that I have work, a purpose--"

"Absurd!" she interrupted him, almost harshly. "There is nobody who has
any better claim upon you than I have. You are over-conscientious about
other things. For once remember your duty as a husband."

He caught her wrist.

"You must trust me a little," he pleaded. "Believe me that I really
appreciate your offer. If I were free to go, I should not hesitate for a
single second.... Can't you trust me, Violet?" he implored, his voice
softening.

The woman within her was fighting on his side. She stifled her wounded
feelings, crushed down her disappointment that he had not taken her at
once into his arms and answered her upon her lips.

"Trust me, then," she replied. "If you refuse my offer, don't hint at
things you have to do. Tell me in plain words why. It is not enough for
you to say that you cannot leave Monte Carlo. Tell me why you cannot. I
have invited you to escort me anywhere you will--I, your wife.... Shall
we go?"

The woman had wholly triumphed. Her voice had dropped, the light was in
her eyes. She swayed a little towards him. His brain reeled. She was
once more the only woman in the world for him. Once more he fancied that
he could feel the clinging of her arms, the touch of her lips. These
things were promised in her face.

"I tell you that I cannot go!" he cried sharply. "Believe me--do believe
me, Violet!"

She pulled down her veil suddenly. He caught at her hand. It lay
passively in his. He pleaded for her confidence, but the moment of
inspiration had gone. She heard him with the air of one who listens no
longer. Presently she stopped him.

"Don't speak to me for several minutes, please," she begged. "Tell him
to put me down at the hotel. I can't go back to the Club just yet."

"You mustn't leave me like this," he insisted.

"Will you tell me why you refuse my offer?" she asked.

"I have a trust!"

The automobile had come to a standstill. She rose to her feet.

"I was once your trust," she reminded him, as she passed into the hotel.




III

MISS GREX AT HOME


Richard Lane, as he made his way up the avenue towards the Villa Mimosa,
wondered whether he was not indeed finding his way into fairyland. On
either side of him were drooping mimosa trees, heavy with the snaky,
orange-coloured blossom whose perfumes hung heavy upon the windless air.
In the background, bordering the gardens which were themselves a maze of
colour, were great clumps of glorious purple rhododendrons, drooping
clusters of red and white roses. A sudden turn revealed a long pergola,
smothered in pink blossoms and leading to the edge of the terrace which
overhung the sea. The villa itself, which seemed, indeed, more like a
palace, was covered with vivid purple clematis, and from the open door
of the winter-garden, which was built out from the front of the place in
a great curve, there came, as he drew near, a bewildering breath of
exotic odours. The front-door was wide open, and before he could reach
the bell a butler had appeared.

"Is Mr. Grex at home?" Richard enquired.

"Mr. Grex is not at home, sir," was the immediate reply.

"I should like to see Miss Grex, then," Richard proceeded.

The man's face was curiously expressionless, but a momentary silence
perhaps betrayed as much surprise as he was capable of showing.

"Miss Grex is not at home, sir," he announced.

Richard hesitated and just then she came out from the winter-garden. She
was wearing a pink linen morning gown and a floppy pink hat. She had a
book under her arm and a parasol swinging from her fingers. When she saw
Lane, she stared at him in amazement. He advanced a step or two towards
her, his hat in his hand.

"I took the liberty of calling to see your father, Miss Grex," he
explained. "As he was not at home, I ventured to enquire for you."

She was absolutely helpless. It was impossible to ignore his
outstretched hand. Very hesitatingly she held out her fingers, which
Richard grasped and seemed in no hurry at all to release.

"This is quite the most beautiful place I have seen anywhere near Monte
Carlo," he remarked enthusiastically.

"I am glad," she murmured, "that you find it attractive."

He was standing by her side now, his hat under his arm. The butler had
withdrawn a little into the background. She glanced around.

"Did my father ask you to call, Mr. Lane?" she enquired, dropping her
voice a little.

"He did not," Richard confessed. "I must say that I gave him plenty of
opportunities but he did not seem to be what I should call hospitably
inclined. In any case, it really doesn't matter. I came to see you."

She bit her lip, struggling hard to repress a smile.

"But I did not ask you to call upon me either," she reminded him
gravely.

"Well, that's true," Lane admitted, a little hesitatingly. "I don't
quite know how things are done over here. Say, are you English, or
French, or what?" he asked, point blank. "I have been puzzling about
that ever since I saw you."

"I am not sure that my nationality matters," she observed.

"Well, over on the other side," he continued,--"I mean America, of
course--if we make up our minds that we want to see something of a girl
and there isn't any real reason why one shouldn't, then the initiative
generally rests with the man. Of course, if you are an only daughter, I
can quite understand your father being a bit particular, not caring for
men callers and that sort of thing, but that can't go on for ever, you
know, can it?"

"Can't it?" she murmured, a little dazed.

"I have a habit," he confided, "of making up my mind quickly, and when I
decide about a thing, I am rather hard to turn. Well, I made up my mind
about you the first moment we met."

"About me?" she repeated.

"About you."

She turned and looked at him almost wonderingly. He was very big and
very confident; good to look upon, less because of his actual good looks
than because of a certain honesty and tenacity of purpose in his
expression; a strength of jaw, modified and rendered even pleasant by
the kindness and humour of his clear grey eyes. He returned her gaze
without embarrassment and he wondered less than ever at finding himself
there. Her complexion in this clear light seemed more beautiful than
ever. Her rich golden-brown hair was waved becomingly over her forehead.
Her eyebrows were silky and delicately straight, her mouth delightful.
Her figure was girlish, but unusually dignified for her years.

"You know," he said suddenly, "you look to me just like one of those
beautiful plants you have in the conservatory there, just as though
you'd stepped out of your little glass home and blossomed right here. I
am almost afraid of you."

She laughed outright this time--a low, musical laugh which had in it
something of foreign intonation.

"Well, really," she exclaimed, "I had not noticed your fear! I was just
thinking that you were quite the boldest young man I have ever met."

"Come, that's something!" he declared. "Couldn't we sit down somewhere
in these wonderful gardens of yours and talk?"

She shook her head.

"But have I not told you already," she protested, "that I do not receive
callers? Neither does my father. Really, your coming here is quite
unwarrantable. If he should return at this moment and find you here, he
would be very angry indeed. I am afraid that he would even be rude, and
I, too, should suffer for having allowed you to talk with me."

"Let's hope that he doesn't return just yet, then," Richard observed,
smiling easily. "I am very good-tempered as a rule, but I do not like
people to be rude to me."

"Fortunately, he cannot return for at least an hour--" she began.

"Then we'll sit down on that terrace, if you please, for just a quarter
of that time," he begged.

She opened her lips and closed them again. He was certainly a very
stubborn young man!

"Well," she sighed, "perhaps it will be the easiest way of getting rid
of you."

She motioned him to follow her. The butler, from a discreet distance,
watched her as though he were looking at a strange thing. Round the
corner of the villa remote from the winter-garden, was a long stone
terrace upon which many windows opened. Screened from the wind, the sun
here was of almost midsummer strength. There was no sound. The great
house seemed asleep. There was nothing but the droning of a few insects.
Even the birds were songless. The walls were covered with drooping
clematis and roses, roses that twined over the balustrades. Below them
was a tangle of mimosa trees and rhododendrons, and further below still
the blue Mediterranean. She sank into a chair.

"You may sit here," she said, "just long enough for me to convince you
that your coming was a mistake. Indeed that is so. I do not wish to seem
foolish or unkind, but my father and I are living here with one
unbreakable rule, and that is that we make no acquaintances whatsoever."

"That sounds rather queer," he remarked. "Don't you find it dull?"

"If I do," she went on, "it is only for a little time. My father is here
for a certain purpose, and as soon as that is accomplished we shall go
away. For him to accomplish that purpose in a satisfactory manner, it is
necessary that we should live as far apart as possible from the ordinary
visitors here."

"Sounds like a riddle," he admitted. "Do you mind telling me of what
nationality you are?"

"I see no reason why I should tell you anything."

"You speak such correct English," he continued, "but there is just a
little touch of accent. You don't know how attractive it sounds. You
don't know--"

He hesitated, suddenly losing some part of his immense confidence.

"What else is there that I do not know?" she asked, with a faintly
amused smile.

"I have lost my courage," he confessed simply. "I do not want to offend
you, I do not want you to think that I am hopelessly foolish, but you
see I have the misfortune to be in love with you."

She laughed at him, leaning back in her chair with half-closed eyes.

"Do people talk like this to casual acquaintances in your country?" she
asked.

"They speak sometimes a language which is common to all countries," he
replied quickly. "The only thing that is peculiar to my people is that
when we say it, it is the sober and the solemn truth."

She was silent for a moment. She had plucked one of the blossoms from
the wall and was pulling to pieces its purple petals.

"Do you know," she said, "that no young man has ever dared to talk to me
as you have done?"

"That is because no one yet has cared so much as I do," he assured her.
"I can quite understand their being frightened. I am terribly afraid of
you myself. I am afraid of the things I say to you, but I have to say
them because they are in my heart, and if I am only to have a quarter of
an hour with you now, you see I must make the best use of my time. I
must tell you that there isn't any other girl in the world I could ever
look at again, and if you won't promise to marry me some day, I shall be
the most wretched person on earth."

"I can never, never marry you," she told him emphatically. "There is
nothing which is so impossible as that."

"Well, that's a pretty bad start," he admitted.

"It is the end," she said firmly.

He shook his head. There was a terrible obstinacy in his face. She
frowned at him.

"You do not mean that you will persist after what I have told you?"

He looked at her, almost surprised.

"There isn't anything else for me to do, that I know of," he declared,
"so long as you don't care for any one else. Tell me again, you are sure
that there is no one?"

"Certainly not," she replied stiffly. "The subject has not yet been made
acceptable to me. You must forgive my adding that in my country it is
not usual for a girl to discuss these matters with a man before her
betrothal."

"Say, I don't understand that," he murmured, looking at her
thoughtfully. "She can't get engaged before she is asked."

"The preliminaries," she explained, "are always arranged by one's
parents."

He smiled pityingly.

"That sort of thing's no use," he asserted confidently. "You must be
getting past that, in whatever corner of Europe you live. What you mean
to say, then, is that your father has some one up his sleeve whom he'll
trot out for you before long?"

"Without doubt, some arrangement will be proposed," she agreed.

"And you'll have to be amiable to some one you've never seen in your
life before, I suppose?" he persisted.

"Not necessarily. It sometimes happens, in my position," she went on,
raising her head, "that certain sacrifices are necessary."

"In your position," he repeated quickly. "What does that mean? You
aren't a queen, are you, or anything of that sort?"

She laughed.

"No," she confessed, "I am not a queen, and yet--"

"And yet?"

"You must go back," she insisted, rising abruptly to her feet. "The
quarter of an hour is up. I do not feel happy, sitting here talking with
you. Really, if my father were to return he would be more angry with me
than he has ever been in his life. This sort of thing is not done
amongst my people."

"Little lady," he said, gently forcing her back into her place, "believe
me, it's done all the world over, and there isn't any girl can come to
any harm by being told that a man is fond of her when it's the truth,
when he'd give his life for her willingly. It's just like that I feel
about you. I've never felt it before. I could never feel it for any one
else. And I am not going to give you up."

She was looking at him half fearfully. There was a little colour in her
cheeks, her eyes were suddenly moist.

"I think," she murmured, "that you talk very nicely. I think I might
even say that I like to hear you talk. But it is so useless. Won't you
go now? Won't you please go now?"

"When may I come again?" he begged.

"Never," she replied firmly. "You must never come again. You must not
even think of it. But indeed you would not be admitted. They will
probably tell my father of your visit, as it is, and he will be very
angry."

"Well, when can I see you, then, and where?" he demanded. "I hope you
understand that I am not in the least disheartened by anything you have
said."

"I think," she declared, "that you are the most persistent person I ever
met."

"It is only," he whispered, leaning a little towards her, "because I
care for you so much."

She was suddenly confused, conscious of a swift desire to get rid of
him. It was as though some one were speaking a new language. All her old
habits and prejudices seemed falling away.

"I cannot make appointments with you," she protested, her voice shaking.
"I cannot encourage you in any way. It is really quite impossible."

"If I go now, will you be at the Club to-morrow afternoon?" he pleaded.

"I am not sure," she replied. "It is very likely that I may be there. I
make no promise."

He took her hand abruptly, and, stooping down, forced her to look into
his eyes.

"You will be there to-morrow afternoon, please," he begged, "and you
will give me the rose from your waistband."

She laughed uneasily.

"If the rose will buy your departure--" she began.

"It may do that," he interrupted, as he drew it through his buttonhole,
"but it will assuredly bring me back again."

       *       *       *       *       *

Richard walked down the hill, whistling softly to himself and with a
curious light in his eyes. As he reached the square in front of the
Casino, he was accosted by a stranger who stood in the middle of the
pavement and respectfully removed his hat.

"You are Mr. Richard Lane, is it not so, monsieur?"

"You've guessed it in one," Richard admitted. "Have I ever seen you
before?"

"Never, monsieur, unless you happened to notice me on your visit to the
prison. I have an official position in the Principality. I am
commissioned to speak to you with respect to the little affair in which
you were concerned at La Turbie."

"Well, I thought we'd thrashed all that out," Lane replied. "Anyway, Sir
Henry Hunterleys and I have engaged a lawyer to look after our
interests."

"Just so," the little man murmured. "A very clever man indeed is
Monsieur Grisson. Still, there is a view of the matter," he continued,
"which is perhaps hard for you Englishmen and Americans to understand.
Assault of any description is very severely punished here, especially
when it results in bodily injury. Theft of all sorts, on the other hand,
is very common indeed. The man whom you injured is a native of Monte
Carlo. To a certain extent, the Principality is bound to protect him."

"Why, the fellow was engaged in a flagrant attempt at highway robbery!"
Richard declared, genuinely astonished.

His companion stretched out his hands.

"Monsieur," he replied, "every one robs here, whether they are
shop-keepers, restaurant keepers, or loafers upon the streets. The
people expect it. At the adjourned trial next week there will be many
witnesses who are also natives of Monte Carlo. I have been commissioned
to warn monsieur. It would be best, on the whole, if he left Monte Carlo
by the next train."

"Why in the name of mischief should I do that?" Richard demanded.

"In the first place," the other pointed out, "because this man, whom you
treated a little roughly, has many friends and associates. They have
sworn revenge. You are even now being followed about, and the police of
the Principality have enough to do without sparing an escort to protect
you against violence. In the second place, I am not at all sure that the
finding of the court next week will be altogether to your satisfaction."

"Do you mean this?" Richard asked incredulously.

"Without a doubt, monsieur."

"Then all I can say," Richard declared, "is that your magistrate or
judge, or whatever he calls himself, is a rotter, and your laws absurd.
I sha'n't budge."

"It is in your own interests, monsieur, this warning," the other
persisted. "Even if you escape these desperadoes, you still run some
risk of discovering what the inside of a prison in Monaco is like."

"I think not," Lane answered grimly. "If there's anything of that sort
going about, I shall board my yacht yonder and hoist the Stars and
Stripes. I shall take some getting into prison, I can tell you, and if I
once get there, you'll hear about it."

"Monsieur will be much wiser to avoid trouble," the official advised.

Lane placed his hand upon the other's shoulder.

"My friend," he said, "not you or a dozen like you could make me stir
from this place until I am ready, and just now I am very far from ready.
See? You can go and tell those who sent you, what I say."

The emissary of the law shrugged his shoulders. His manner was stiff but
resigned.

"I have delivered my message, monsieur," he announced. "Monsieur
naturally must decide for himself."

He disappeared with a bow. Richard continued on his way and a few
minutes later ran into Hunterleys.

"Say, did you ever hear such cheek!" he exclaimed, passing his arm
through the latter's. "A little bounder stopped me in the street and has
been trying to frighten me into leaving Monte Carlo, just because I
broke that robber's wrist. Same Johnny that came to you, I expect. What
are they up to, anyway? What do they want to get rid of us for? They
ought to be jolly grateful."

Hunterleys shook his head.

"So far as I am concerned," he said, "their reasons for wanting to get
rid of me are fairly obvious, I am afraid, but I must say I don't know
where you come in, unless--"

He stopped short.

"Well, unless what?" Richard interposed. "I should just like to know who
it is trying to get me kicked out."

"Can't you guess?" Hunterleys asked. "There is one person who I think
would be quite as well pleased to see the back of you."

"Here in Monte Carlo?"

"Absolutely!"

Richard was mystified.

"You are not very bright, I am afraid," Hunterleys observed. "What about
your friend Mr. Grex?"

Richard whistled softly.

"Are you serious?"

"Of course I am," Hunterleys assured him.

"But has he any pull here, this Mr. Grex?"

Hunterleys' eyes twinkled for a moment.

"Yes," he replied, "I think that Mr. Grex has very considerable
influence in this part of the world, and he is a man who, I should say,
was rather used to having his own way."

"I gathered that I wasn't exactly popular with him this afternoon,"
Richard remarked meditatively. "I've been out there to call."

Hunterleys stopped short upon the pavement.

"What?" he exclaimed.

"I have been out to call at the Villa Mimosa," Richard repeated. "I
don't see anything extraordinary in that."

"Did you see--Miss Fedora?"

"Rather! And thank you for telling me her name, at any rate. We sat on
the terrace and chatted for a quarter of an hour. She gave me to
understand, though, that the old man was dead against me. It all seems
very mysterious. Anyway, she gave me this rose I am wearing, and I think
she'll be at the Club to-morrow afternoon."

Hunterleys was silent for a moment. He seemed much impressed.

"You know, Richard," he declared, "there is something akin to genius in
your methods."

"That's all very well," the young man protested, "but can you give me a
single solid reason why, considering I am in love with the girl, I
shouldn't go and call upon her? Who is this Mr. Grex, anyway?"

"I've a good mind to tell you," Hunterleys said meditatively.

"I don't care whether you do or not," Lane pronounced firmly, as they
parted. "I don't care whether Mr. Grex is the Sultan of Turkey or the
Czar of Russia. I'm going to marry his daughter. That's settled."




IV

DINNER FOR TWO


At a few minutes before eight o'clock that evening Lady Hunterleys
descended the steps of the Casino and crossed the square towards the
Hotel de Paris. She walked very slowly and she looked neither to the
right nor to the left. She had the air of seeing no one. She
acknowledged mechanically the low bow of the commissionaire who opened
the door for her. A reception clerk who stood on one side to let her
pass, she ignored altogether. She crossed the hall to the lift and
pressed the bell. Draconmeyer, who had been lounging in an easy-chair
waiting for her, watched her entrance and noticed her abstracted manner
with kindling eyes. He threw away his newspaper and, hastily approaching
her, touched her arm.

"You are late," he remarked.

She started.

"Yes, I am late."

"I did not see you at the Club."

"I have been to the Casino instead," she told him. "I thought that it
might change my luck."

"Successful, I trust?"

She shook her head. Then she opened her gold satchel and showed him. It
was empty.

"The luck must turn sometime," he reminded her soothingly. "How long
will you be changing?"

"I am tired," she confessed. "I thought that to-night I would not dine.
I will have something sent up to my room."

He was obviously disappointed.

"Couldn't you dine as you are?" he begged. "You could change later, if
you wished to. It is always such a disappointment when you do not
appear--and to-night," he added, "especially."

Violet hesitated. She was really longing only to be alone and to rest.
She thought, however, of the poor invalid to whom their meeting at
dinner-time was the one break of the day.

"Very well," she promised, "I will be down in ten minutes."

Draconmeyer, as the lift bore her upwards, strolled away. Although the
custom was a strange one to him, he sought out the American bar and
drank a cocktail. Then he lit a cigarette and made his way back into the
lounge, moving restlessly about, his hands behind his back, his forehead
knitted. In his way he had been a great schemer, and in the crowded hall
of the hotel that night, surrounded by a wonderfully cosmopolitan throng
of loungers and passers-by, he lived again through the birth and
development of many of the schemes which his brain had conceived since
he had left his mother-country. One and all they had been successful. He
seemed, indeed, to have been imbued with the gift of success. He had
floated immense loans where other men had failed; he had sustained the
credit of his country on a high level through more than one serious
financial crisis; he had pulled down or built up as his judgment or
fancy had dictated; and all the time the man's relaxations, apart from
the actual trend of great affairs, had been few and slight. Then had
come his acquaintance with Linda's school-friend. He looked back through
the years. At first he had scarcely noticed her visits. Gradually he had
become conscious of a dim feeling of thankfulness to the woman who
always seemed able to soothe his invalid wife. Then, scarcely more than
a year or so ago, he had found himself watching her at unexpected
moments, admiring the soft grace of her movements, the pleasant cadence
of her voice, the turn of her head, the colour of her hair, the elegance
of her clothes, her thin, fashionable figure. Gradually he had begun to
look for her, to welcome her at his table--and from that, the rest.
Finally the birth of this last scheme of his. He had very nearly made a
fatal mistake at the very commencement, had pulled himself right again
only with a supreme effort. His heart beat quicker even now as he
thought of that moment. They had been alone together one evening. She
had sat talking with him after Linda had gone to bed worse than usual,
and in the dim light he had almost lost his head, he had almost said
those words, let her see the things in his eyes for which the time was
not yet ripe. She had kept away for a while after that. He had treated
it as a mistake but he had been very careful not to err again. By
degrees she forgot. The estrangement between husband and wife was part
of his scheme, largely his doing. He was all the time working to make
the breach wider. The visit to Monte Carlo, rather a difficult
accomplishment, he had arranged. He had seen with delight the necessity
for some form of excitement growing up in her, had watched her losses
and only wished that they had been larger. He had encouraged her to play
for higher stakes and found that she needed very little encouragement
indeed. To-night he felt that a crisis was at hand. There was a new look
upon her face. She had probably lost everything. He knew exactly how she
would feel about asking her husband for help. His eyes grew brighter as
he waited for the lift.

She came at last and they walked together into the dining-room. When she
reached their accustomed table, it was empty, and only their two places
were laid. She looked at him in surprise.

"But I thought you said that Linda would be so disappointed!" she
reminded him.

He shook his head.

"I do not think that I mentioned Linda's name," he protested. "She went
to bed soon after tea in an absolutely hopeless state. I am afraid that
to-night I was selfish. I was thinking of myself. I have had nothing in
the shape of companionship all day. I came and looked at the table, and
the thought of dining alone wearied me. I have to spend a great deal of
time alone, unfortunately. You and I are, perhaps, a little alike in
that respect."

She seated herself after a moment's hesitation. He moved his chair a
little closer to hers. The pink-shaded lamp seemed to shut them off from
the rest of the room. A waiter poured wine into their glasses.

"I ordered champagne to-night," he remarked. "You looked so tired when
you came in. Drink a glass at once."

She obeyed him, smiling faintly. She was, as a matter of fact, craving
for something of the sort.

"It was thoughtful of you," she declared. "I am tired. I have been
losing all day, and altogether I have had a most depressing time."

"It is not as it should be, that," he observed, smiling. "This is a city
of pleasure. One was meant to leave one's cares behind here. If any one
in this world," he added, "should be without them, it should be you."

He looked at her respectfully yet with an admiration which he made no
effort to conceal. There was nothing in the look over-personal. She
accepted it with gratitude.

"You are always kind," she murmured.

"This reminds me of some of our evenings in London," he went on, "when
we used to talk music before we went to the Opera. I always found those
evenings so restful and pleasant. Won't you try and forget that you have
lost a few pennies; forget, also, your other worries, whatever they may
be? I have had a letter to-day from the one great writer whom we both
admire. I shall read it to you. And I have a list of the operas for next
week. I see that your husband's little protegee, Felicia Roche, is
here."

"My husband's protegee?" she repeated. "I don't quite understand."

He seemed, for a moment, embarrassed.

"I am sorry," he said. "I had no idea. But your husband will tell you if
you ask him. It was he who paid for her singing education, and her
triumph is his. But the name must be known to you."

"I have never heard it in connection with my husband," she declared,
frowning slightly. "Henry does not always take me into his confidence."

"Then I am sorry," he continued penitently, "that I mentioned the
matter. It was clumsy of me. I had an idea that he must have told you
all about her.... Another glass of wine, please, and you will find your
appetite comes. Jules has prepared that salmon trout specially. I'll
read you the letter from Maurice, if you like, and afterwards there is a
story I must tell you."

The earlier stages of dinner slipped pleasantly away. Draconmeyer was a
born conversationalist,--a good talker and a keen tactician. The food
and the wine, too, did their part. Presently Violet lifted her head, the
colour came back to her cheeks, she too began to talk and laugh. All the
time he was careful not to press home his advantage. He remembered that
one night in the library at Grosvenor Square, when she had turned her
head and looked at him for a moment before leaving. She must be
different now, he told himself fiercely. It was impossible that she
could continue to love a husband who neglected her, a man whose mistaken
sense of dignity kept him away from her!

"I want you," he begged, as they drew towards the close of the meal, "to
treat me, if you will, just a little more confidentially."

She glanced up at him quickly, almost suspiciously.

"What do you mean?"

"You have troubles of which you do not speak," he went on. "If my
friendship is worth anything, it ought to enable me to share those
troubles with you. You have had a little further disagreement with your
husband, I think, and bad luck at the tables. You ought not to let
either of these things depress you too much. Tell me, do you think that
I could help with Sir Henry?"

"No one could help," she replied, her tone unconsciously hardening.
"Henry is obstinate, and it is my firm conviction that he has ceased to
care for me at all. This afternoon--this very afternoon," she went on,
leaning across the table, her voice trembling a little, her eyes very
bright, "I offered to go away with him."

"To leave Monte Carlo?"

"Yes! He refused. He said that he must stay here, for some mysterious
reason. I begged him to tell me what that reason was, and he was silent.
It was the end. He gives me no confidence. He has refused the one effort
I made at reconciliation. I am convinced that it is useless. We have
parted finally."

Draconmeyer tried hard to keep the light from his eyes as he leaned
towards her.

"Dear lady," he said, "if I do not admit that I am sorry--well, there
are reasons. Your husband did well to be mysterious. I can tell you the
reason why he will not leave Monte Carlo. It is because Felicia Roche
makes her debut at the Opera House to-morrow night. There! I didn't mean
to tell you but the whole world knows it. Even now I would not have told
you but for other things. It is best that you know the truth. It is my
firm belief that your husband does not deserve your interest, much more
your affection. If only I dared--"

He paused for a moment. Every word he was compelled to measure.

"Sometimes," he continued, "your condition reminds me so much of my own.
I think that there is no one so lonely in life as I am. For the last few
years Linda has been fading away, physically and mentally. I touch her
fingers at morning and night, we speak of the slight happenings of the
day. She has no longer any mind or any power of sympathy. Her lips are
as cold as her understanding. For that I know she is not to blame, yet
it has left me very lonely. If I had had a child," he went on, "even if
there were one single soul of whom I was fond, to whom I might look for
sympathy; even if you, my dear friend--you see, I am bold, and I venture
to call you my dear friend--could be a little kinder sometimes, it would
make all the difference in the world."

She turned her head and looked at him. His teeth came together hastily.
It seemed to him that already she was on her guard.

"You have something more to say, haven't you?" she asked.

He hesitated. Her tone was non-committal. It was a moment when he might
have risked everything, but he feared to make a mistake.

"This is what I mean," he declared, with the appearance of great
frankness. "I am going to speak to you upon the absurd question of
money. I have an income of which, even if I were boundlessly
extravagant, I could not hope to spend half. A speculation, the week
before I left England, brought me a profit of a million marks. But for
the banking interests of my country and the feeling that I am the
trustee for thousands of other people, it would weary me to look for
investments. And you--you came in to-night, looking worn out just
because you had lost a handful or so of those wretched plaques. There,
you see it is coming now. I should like permission to do more than call
myself your friend. I should like permission to be also your banker."

She looked at him quietly and searchingly. His heart began to beat
faster. At least she was in doubt. He had not wholly lost. His chance,
even, was good.

"My friend," she said, "I believe that you are honest. I do indeed
recognise your point of view. The thing is an absurdity, but, you know,
all conventions, even the most foolish, have some human and natural
right beneath them. I think that the convention which forbids a woman
accepting money from a man, however close a friend, is like that.
Frankly, my first impulse, a few minutes ago, was to ask you to lend me
a thousand pounds. Now I know that I cannot do it."

"Do you really mean that?" he asked, in a tone of deep disappointment.
"If you do, I am hurt. It proves that the friendship which to me is so
dear, is to you a very slight thing."

"You mustn't think that," she pleaded. "And please, Mr. Draconmeyer,
don't think that I don't appreciate all your kindness. Short of
accepting your money, I would do anything to prove it."

"There need be no question of a gift," he reminded her, in a low tone.
"If I were a perfect stranger, I might still be your banker. You must
have money from somewhere. Are you going to ask your husband?"

She bit her lip for a moment. If indeed he had known her actual
position, his hopes would have been higher still.

"I cannot possibly ask Henry for anything," she confessed. "I had made
up my mind to ask him to authorise the lawyers to advance me my next
quarter's allowance. After--what has passed between us, though,
and--considering everything, I don't feel that I can do it."

"Then may I ask how you really mean to get more money?" he went on
gently.

She looked at him a little piteously.

"Honestly, I don't know," she admitted. "I will be quite frank with you.
Henry allows me two thousand, five hundred a year. I brought nine
hundred pounds out with me, and I have nothing more to come until June."

"And how much have you left of the nine hundred pounds?" he asked.

"Not enough to pay my hotel bill," she groaned.

He smiled.

"Circumstances are too strong for you," he declared. "You must go to a
banker. I claim the right of being that banker. I shall draw up a
promissory note--no, we needn't do that--two or three cheques, perhaps,
dated June, August and October. I shall charge you five per cent.
interest and I shall lend you a thousand pounds."

Her eyes sparkled. The thought of the money was wonderful to her. A
thousand pounds in mille notes that very night! She thought it all over
rapidly. She would never run such risks again. She would play for small
amounts each day--just enough to amuse herself. Then, if she were lucky,
she would plunge, only she would choose the right moment. Very likely
she would be able to pay the whole amount back in a day or two. If Henry
minded, well, it was his own fault. He should have been different.

"You put it so kindly," she said gratefully, "that I am afraid I cannot
refuse. You are very, very considerate, Mr. Draconmeyer. It certainly
will be nicer to owe you the money than a stranger."

"I am only glad that you are going to be reasonable," he
remarked,--"glad, really, for both our sakes. And remember," he went on
cheerfully, "that one isn't young and at Monte Carlo too many times in
one's life. Make up your mind to enjoy yourself. If the luck goes
against you for a little longer, come again. You are bound to win in the
end. Now, if you like, we'll have our coffee outside. I'll go and fetch
the money and you shall make out your cheques."

He scribbled hastily on a piece of paper for a moment.

"These are the amounts," he pointed out. "I have charged you five per
cent. per annum interest. As I can deal with money at something under
four, I shall make quite a respectable profit--more than enough," he
added good-naturedly, "to pay for our dinner!"

She seemed suddenly years younger. The prospect of the evening before
her was enchanting.

"You really are delightful!" she exclaimed. "You can't think how
differently I shall feel when I go into the Club to-night. I am
perfectly certain that it's having plenty of money that helps one to
win."

He smiled.

"And plenty of courage," he added. "Don't waste your time trifling with
small stakes. Bid up for the big things. It is the only way in gambling
and in life."

He rose to his feet and their eyes met for a moment. Once more she felt
vaguely troubled. She put that disturbing thought away from her,
however. It was foolish to think of drawing back now. If he admired
her--well, so did most men!




V

INTERNATIONAL POLITICS


The Villa Mimosa flamed with lights from the top story to the
ground-floor. The entrance gates stood wide-open. All along the drive,
lamps flashed from unsuspected places beneath the yellow-flowering
trees. One room only seemed shrouded in darkness and mystery, and around
that one room was concentrated the tense life of the villa. Thick
curtains had been drawn with careful hands. The heavy door had been
securely closed. The French-windows which led out on to the balcony had
been almost barricaded. The four men who were seated around the oval
table had certainly secured for themselves what seemed to be a complete
and absolute isolation. Yet there was, nevertheless, a sense of
uneasiness, an indescribable air of tension in the atmosphere. The
quartette had somehow the appearance of conspirators who had not settled
down to their work. It was the last arrival, the man who sat at Mr.
Grex's right hand, who was responsible for the general unrest.

Mr. Grex moved a little nervously in the chair which he had just drawn
up to the table. He looked towards Draconmeyer as he opened the
proceedings.

"Monsieur Douaille," he said, "has come to see us this evening at my own
urgent request. Before we commence any sort of discussion, he has asked
me to make it distinctly understood to you both--to you, Mr.
Draconmeyer, and to you, Herr Selingman--that this is not in any sense
of the word a formal meeting or convention. We are all here, as it
happens, by accident. Our friend Selingman, for instance, who is a past
master in the arts of pleasant living, has not missed a season here for
many years. Draconmeyer is also an habitue. I myself, it is true, have
spent my winters elsewhere, for various reasons, and am comparatively a
stranger, but my visit here was arranged many months ago. You yourself,
Monsieur Douaille, are a good Parisian, and no good Parisian should miss
his yearly pilgrimages to the Mecca of the pleasure-seeker. We meet
together this evening, therefore, purely as friends who have a common
interest at heart."

The man from whom this atmosphere of nervousness radiated--a man of
medium height, inclined towards corpulence, with small grey imperial, a
thin red ribbon in his buttonhole, and slightly prominent
features--promptly intervened. He had the air of a man wholly
ill-at-ease. All the time Mr. Grex had been speaking, he had been
drumming upon the table with his forefinger.

"Precisely! Precisely!" he exclaimed. "Above all things, that must be
understood. Ours is a chance meeting. My visit in these parts is in no
way connected with the correspondence I have had with one of our friends
here. Further," Monsieur Douaille continued impressively, "it must be
distinctly understood that any word I may be disposed to utter, either
in the way of statement or criticism, is wholly and entirely unofficial.
I do not even know what the subject of our discussion is to be. I
approach it with the more hesitation because I gather, from some slight
hint which has fallen from our friend here, that it deals with a scheme
which, if ever it should be carried into effect, is to the disadvantage
of a nation with whom we are at present on terms of the greatest
friendship. My presence here, except on the terms I have stated," he
concluded, his voice shaking a little, "would be an unpardonable offence
to that country."

Monsieur Douaille's somewhat laboured explanation did little to lighten
the atmosphere. It was the genius of Herr Selingman which intervened. He
leaned back in his chair and he patted his waistcoat thoughtfully.

"I have things to say," he declared, "but I cannot say them. I have
nothing to smoke--no cigarette, no cigar. I arrive here choked with
dust. As yet, the circumstance seems to have escaped our host's notice.
Ah! what is that I see?" he added, rising suddenly to his feet. "My
host, you are acquitted. I look around the table here at which I am
invited to seat myself, and I perceive nothing but a few stumpy pens and
unappetising blotting-paper. By chance I lift my eyes. I see the parting
of the curtains yonder, and behold!"

He rose and crossed the room, throwing back a curtain at the further
end. In the recess stood a sideboard, laden with all manner of liqueurs
and wines, glasses of every size and shape, sandwiches, pasties, and
fruit. Herr Selingman stood on one side with outstretched hand, in the
manner of a showman. He himself was wrapped for a moment in admiration.

"For you others I cannot speak," he observed, surveying the label upon a
bottle of hock. "For myself, here is nectar."

With careful fingers he drew the cork. At a murmured word of invitation
from Mr. Grex, the others rose from their places and also helped
themselves from the sideboard. Selingman took up his position in the
centre of the hearth-rug, with a long tumbler of yellow wine in one hand
and a sandwich in the other.

"For myself," he continued, taking a huge bite, "I wage war against all
formality. I have been through this sort of thing in Berlin. I have been
through it in Vienna, I have been through it in Rome. I have sat at long
tables with politicians, have drawn little pictures upon the
blotting-paper and been bored to death. In wearisome fashion we have
drafted agreements, we have quarrelled and bickered, we have yawned and
made of ourselves men of parchment. But to-night," he added, taking
another huge bite from his sandwich, "to-night nothing of that sort is
intended. Draconmeyer and I have an idea. Mr. Grex is favourably
inclined towards it. That idea isn't a bit of good to ourselves or any
one else unless Monsieur Douaille here shares our point of view. Here we
are, then, all met together--let us hope for a week or two's enjoyment.
Little by little we must try and see what we can do towards instilling
that idea into the mind of Monsieur Douaille. We may succeed, we may
fail, but let us always remember that our conversations are the
conversations of four friends, met together upon what is nothing more or
less than a holiday. I hate the sight of those sheets of blotting-paper
and clean pens. Who wants to make notes, especially of what we are going
to talk about! The man who cannot carry notes in his head is no
statesman."

Monsieur Douaille, who had chosen champagne and was smoking a cigarette,
beamed approval. Much of his nervousness had departed.

"I agree," he declared, "I like well the attitude of our friend
Selingman. There is something much too formal about this table. I am not
here to talk treaties or to upset them. To exchange views, if you
will--no more. Meanwhile, I appreciate this very excellent champagne,
the cigarettes are delicious, and I remove myself to this easy-chair. If
any one would talk world politics, I am ready. Why not? Why should we
pretend that there is any more interesting subject to men like
ourselves, in whom is placed the trust of our country?"

Mr. Grex nodded his head in assent.

"The fault is mine," he declared, "but, believe me, it was not
intentional. It was never my wish to give too formal an air to our
little meeting--in fact I never intended to do more than dwell on the
outside edge of great subjects to-night. Unfortunately, Monsieur
Douaille, neither you nor I, whatever our power or influence may be, are
directly responsible for the foreign affairs of our countries. We can,
therefore, speak with entire frankness. Our countries--your country and
mine--are to-day bound together by an alliance. You have something which
almost approaches an alliance with another country. I am going to tell
you in plain words what I think you have been given to understand
indirectly many times during the last few years--that understanding is
not approved of in St. Petersburg."

Monsieur Douaille knocked the ash from his cigarette. He gazed
thoughtfully into the fire of pine logs which was burning upon the open
hearth.

"Mr. Grex," he said, "that is plainer speaking than we have ever
received from any official source."

"I admit it," Mr. Grex replied. "Such a statement on my part may sound a
little startling, but I make it advisedly. I know the feeling--you will
grant that my position entitles me to know the feeling--of the men who
count for anything in Russian politics. Perhaps I do not mean the
titular heads of my Government. There are others who have even more
responsibilities, who count for more. I honestly and truthfully assure
you that I speak for the powers that are behind the Government of Russia
when I tell you that the English dream of a triple alliance between
Russia, England, and France will never be accepted by my country."

Monsieur Douaille sipped his champagne.

"This is candour," he remarked, "absolute candour. One speaks quite
plainly, I imagine, before our friend the enemy?" he added, smiling
towards Selingman.

"Why not?" Selingman demanded. "Why not, indeed? We are not fools here."

"Then I would ask you, Mr. Grex," Monsieur Douaille continued, "where in
the name of all that is equitable are you to find an alliance more
likely to preserve the status quo in Europe? Both logically and
geographically it absolutely dovetails. Russia is in a position to
absorb the whole attention of Austria and even to invade the north coast
of Germany. The hundred thousand troops or so upon which we could rely
from Great Britain, would be invaluable for many reasons--first, because
a mixture of blood is always good; secondly, because the regular army
which perforce they would have to send us, is of very fine fighting
material; and thirdly, because they could land, to give away a very open
secret to you, my friend Selingman, in a westerly position, and would
very likely succeed thereby in making an outflanking movement towards
the north. I presume that at present the German fleet would not come out
to battle, in which case the English would certainly be able to do great
execution upon the northern coast of Germany. All this, of course, has
been discussed and written about, and the next war been mapped out in a
dozen different ways. I must confess, however, that taking every known
consideration into account, I can find no other distribution of powers
so reasonable or so favourable to my country."

Mr. Grex nodded.

"I find no fault with any word of what you have said," he declared,
"except that yours is simply the superficial and obvious idea of the man
in the street as to the course of the next probable war. Now let us go a
little further. I grant all the points which you urge in favour of your
suggested triple alliance. I will even admit that your forecast of a war
taking place under such conditions, is a fairly faithful one. We
proceed, then. The war, if it came to pass, could never be decisive. An
immense amount of blood would be shed, treasure recklessly poured out,
Europe be rendered desolate, for the sake most largely of whom?--of
Japan and America. That is the weakness of the whole thing. A war
carried out on the lines you suggest would be playing the game of these
two countries. Even the victors would be placed at a huge disadvantage
with them, to say nothing of the losers, who must see slipping away from
them forever their place under the sun. It is my opinion--and I have
studied this matter most scientifically and with the help of the Secret
Service of every country, not excepting your own, Herr Selingman--it is
my opinion that this war must be indecisive. The German fleet would be
crippled and not destroyed. The English fleet would retain its
proportionate strength. No French advance into Germany would be
successful, no German advance into France is likely. The war would
languish for lack of funds, through sheer inanition it would flicker
out, and the money of the world would flow into the treasuries of
America. Russia would not be fighting for her living. With her it could
be at best but a half-hearted war. She would do her duty to the
alliance. Nothing more could be hoped from her. You could not expect,
for instance, that she would call up all her reserves, leave the whole
of her eastern frontier unprotected, and throw into mid-Europe such a
force as would in time subjugate Germany. This could be done but it will
not be done. We all know that."

Monsieur Douaille smoked thoughtfully for several moments.

"Very well," he pronounced at last, "I am rather inclined to agree with
all that you have said. Yet it seems to me that you evade the great
point. The status quo is what we desire, peace is what the world wants.
If, before such a war as you have spoken of is begun, people realise
what the end of it must be, don't you think that that itself is the
greatest help towards peace? My own opinion is, I tell you frankly, that
for many years to come, at any rate, there will be no war."

Herr Selingman set down his glass and turned slowly around.

"Then let me tell you that you are mistaken," he declared solemnly.
"Listen to me, my friend Douaille--my friend, mind, and not the
statesman Douaille. I am a German citizen and you are a French one, and
I tell you that if in three years' time your country does not make up
its mind to strike a blow for Alsace and Lorraine, then in three years'
time Germany will declare war upon you."

Monsieur Douaille had the expression of a man who doubts. Selingman
frowned. He was suddenly immensely serious. He struck the palm of one
hand a great blow with his clenched fist.

"Why is it that no one in the world understands," he cried, "what
Germany wants? I tell you, Monsieur Douaille, that we don't hate your
country. We love it. We crowd to Paris. We expand there. It is the
holiday place of every good German. Who wants a ruined France? Not we!
Yet, unless there is a change in the international situation, we shall
go to war with you and I will tell you why. There are no secrets about
this sort of thing. Every politician who is worth his salt knows them.
The only difficulty is to know when a country is in earnest, and how far
it will go. That is the value of our meeting. That is what I am here to
say. We shall go to war with you, Monsieur Douaille, to get Calais, and
when we've got Calais--oh, my God!" Selingman almost reverently
concluded, "then our solemn task will be begun."

"England!" Monsieur Douaille murmured.

There was a brief pause. Selingman had seemed, for a moment, to have
passed into the clouds. There was a sort of gloomy rapture upon his
face. He caught up Douaille's last word and repeated it.

"England! England, and through her...."

He moved to the sideboard and filled his tumbler with wine. When he came
back to his place, his expression had lightened.

"Ah, well! dear Monsieur Douaille," he exclaimed, patting the other's
shoulder in friendly fashion, "to-night we merely chatter. To-night we
are here to make friends, to gain each the confidence of the other. To
ourselves let us pretend that we are little boys, playing the game of
our nation--France, Germany, and Russia. Germany and Russia, to be frank
with you, are waiting for one last word from Germany's father, something
splendid and definite to offer. What we would like France to do, while
France loses its money at roulette and flirts with the pretty ladies at
Ciro's, is to try and accustom itself not to an alliance with
Germany--no! Nothing so utopian as that. The lion and the lamb may
remain apart. They may agree to be friends, they may even wave paws at
one another, but I do not suggest that they march side by side. What we
ask of France is that she looks the other way. It is very easy to look
the other way. She might look, for instance--towards Egypt."

[Illustration: "What we ask of France is that she looks the other way."]

There was a sudden glitter in the eyes of Monsieur Douaille. Selingman
saw it and pressed on.

"There are laurels to be won which will never fade," he continued,
setting down his empty tumbler, "laurels to be won by that statesman of
your country, the little boy France, who is big enough and strong enough
to stand with his feet upon the earth and proclaim--'I am for France and
my own people, and my own people only, and I will make them great
through all the centuries by seeing the truth and leading them towards
it, single-purposed, single-minded.' ... But these things are not to be
disposed of so readily as this wonderful Berncastler--I beg its pardon,
Berncastler Doctor--of our host. For to-night I have said my say. I have
whims, perhaps, but with me serious affairs are finished for the night.
I go to the Sporting Club. Mademoiselle keeps my place at the baccarat
table. I feel in the vein. It is a small place, Monte Carlo. Let us make
no appointments. We shall drift together. And, monsieur," he concluded,
laying his hand for a moment upon Douaille's shoulder, "let the thought
sink into your brain. Wipe out that geographical and logical map of
Europe from your mind; see things, if you can, in the new daylight.
Then, when the idea has been there for just a little time--well, we
speak again.... Come, Draconmeyer. I am relying upon your car to get me
into Monte Carlo. My bounteous host, Mr. Grex, good night! I touch your
hand with reverence. The man who possesses such wine and offers it to
his friends, is indeed a prince."

Mr. Grex rose a little unwillingly from his chair.

"It is of no use to protest," he remarked, smiling. "Our friend
Selingman will have his way. Besides, as he reminded us, there is one
last word to arrive. Come and breathe the odours of the Riviera,
Monsieur Douaille. This is when I realise that I am not at my villa on
the Black Sea."

They passed out into the hall and stood on the terrace while the cars
drew up. The light outside seemed faintly violet. The perfume of mimosa
and roses and oleander came to him in long waves, subtle and yet
invigorating. Below, the lights of Monte Carlo, clear and brilliant,
with no northern fog or mist to dull their radiance, shone like gems in
the mantle of night. Selingman sighed as he stepped into the automobile.

"We are men who deserve well from history," he declared, "who, in the
midst of a present so wonderful, can spare time to plan for the
generations to come!"




VI

A BARGAIN WITH JEAN COULOIS


Selingman drew out his watch and held it underneath the electric light
set in the back of the automobile.

"Good!" he declared. "It is not yet half-past eleven."

"Too early for the Austria," Draconmeyer murmured, a little absently.

Selingman returned the watch to his pocket.

"By no means," he objected. "Mademoiselle is doubtless amusing herself
well enough, but if I go now and leave in an hour, she will be peevish.
She might want to accompany us. To-night it would not be convenient.
Tell your chauffeur, Draconmeyer, to take us direct to the rendezvous.
We can at least watch the people there. One is always amused. We will
forget our nervous friend. These little touches, Draconmeyer, my man,
they mark the man of genius, mind you. Did you notice how his eyes lit
up when I whispered that one word 'Egypt'? It is a great game when you
bait your hook with men and fish for empires!"

Draconmeyer gave an instruction to his chauffeur and leaned back.

"If we succeed,--" he began.

"Succeed?" Selingman interrupted. "Why, man alive, he is on our hooks
already! Be at rest, my friend. The affair is half arranged. It remains
only with us to deal with one man."

Draconmeyer's eyes sparkled beneath his spectacles. A slow smile crept
over his white face.

"You are right," he agreed. "That man is best out of the way. If he and
Douaille should meet--"

"They shall not meet," Selingman thundered. "I, Selingman, declare it.
We are here already. Good! The aspect of the place pleases me."

The two men, arriving so early, received the distinguished consideration
of a bowing maitre d'hotel as they entered the Austria. They were
ushered at once to a round table in a favourable position. Selingman
surrendered his hat and coat to the obsequious vestiaire, pulled down
his waistcoat with a familiar gesture, spread his pudgy hands upon the
table and looked around him with a smile of benevolent approval.

"I shall amuse myself here," he declared confidently. "Pass the menu to
me, Draconmeyer. You have no more idea how to eat than a rabbit. That is
why you suffer from indigestion. At this hour--why, it is not midnight
yet--one needs sustenance--sustenance, mark you, intelligently selected,
something nourishing yet not heavy. A sheet of paper, waiter. You see, I
like to write out my dishes. It saves trouble and there are no
disappointments, nothing is forgotten. As to the wine, show me the
vintage champagnes.... So! You need not hurry with the meal. We shall
spend some time here."

Draconmeyer arrested the much impressed maitre d'hotel as he was
hurrying away.

"Is there dancing here to-night?" he enquired.

"But certainly, monsieur," the man replied. "A Spanish lady, altogether
ravishing, the equal of Otero at her best--Signorina Melita."

"She dances alone?"

"By no means. There is the young Frenchman, Jean Coulois, who is engaged
for the season. A wonderful pair, indeed! When May comes, they go to the
music-halls in Paris and London."

Draconmeyer nodded approval.

"Coulois was the name," he whispered to Selingman, as the man moved
away.

The place filled up slowly. Presently the supper was served. Selingman
ate with appetite, Draconmeyer only sparingly. The latter, however,
drank more freely than usual. The wine had, nevertheless, curiously
little effect upon him, save for a slight additional brightness of the
eyes. His cheeks remained pale, his manner distrait. He watched the
people enter and pass to their places, without any apparent interest.
Selingman, on the other hand, easily absorbed the spirit of his
surroundings. As the night wore on he drank healths with his neighbours,
beamed upon the pretty little Frenchwoman who was selling flowers, ate
and drank what was set before him with obvious enjoyment. Both men,
however, showed at least an equal interest when Mademoiselle Melita, in
Spanish costume, accompanied by a slim, dark-visaged man, began to
dance. Draconmeyer was no longer restless. He sat with folded arms,
watching the performance with a strangely absorbed air. One thing,
however, was singular. Although Selingman was confessedly a ladies' man,
his eyes, after her first few movements, scarcely rested for a moment
upon the girl. Both Draconmeyer and he watched her companion
steadfastly. When the dance was over they applauded with spirit.
Selingman sat up in his place, a champagne bottle in his hand. He
beckoned to the man, who, with a little deprecating shrug of the
shoulders, swaggered up to their table with some show of condescension.

"A chair for Monsieur Jean Coulois, the great dancer," Selingman
ordered, "a glass, and another bottle of wine. Monsieur Jean, my
congratulations! But a word in your ear. Her steps do not match yours.
It is you who make the dance. She has no initiative. She can do nothing
but imitate," he added.

The dancer looked at his host a little curiously. He was slightly built
and without an atom of colour. His black hair was closely cropped, his
eyes of sombre darkness, his demeanour almost sullen. At Selingman's
words, however, he nodded rapidly and seated himself more firmly upon
his chair. It was apparent that although his face remained
expressionless, he was gratified.

"They notice nothing, these others," he remarked, with a little wave of
the hand. "It is always the woman who counts. You are right, monsieur.
She dances like a stick. She has good calves and she rolls her eyes. The
_canaille_ applaud. It is always like that. Your health, monsieur!"

He drank his wine without apparent enjoyment, but he drank it like
water. Selingman leaned across the table.

"Coulois," he whispered, "the wolves bay loudest at night, is it not
so?"

The man sat quite still. If such a thing had been possible, he might
have grown a shade paler. His eyes glittered. He looked steadfastly at
Selingman.

"Who are you?" he muttered.

"The wolves sleep in the daytime," Selingman replied.

The dancer shrugged his shoulders. He held out his glass to be
replenished. The double password had reassured him.

"Pardon, monsieur," he said, "these have been anxious hours."

"The little affair at La Turbie?" Selingman suggested.

Coulois set down his glass for the first time half finished. His mouth
had taken an evil turn. He leaned across the table.

"See you," he exclaimed in a hoarse whisper, "what happened, happened
justly! Martin is responsible. The whole thing was conducted in the
spirit of a pantomime, a great joke. Who are we, the Wolves, to brandish
empty firearms, to shrink from letting a little blood! Bah!"

He finished his wine. Selingman nodded approvingly as he refilled his
glass.

"My friend and I," he confided, "were amongst those who were held up.
Imagine it! We stood against the wall like a row of dummies. Such
treasure as I have never before seen was poured into that sack. Jewels,
my friend, such as only the women of Monte Carlo wear! Packet after
packet of mille notes! Wealth immeasurable! Oh, Coulois, Coulois, it was
an opportunity lost!"

"Lost!" the dancer echoed fiercely. "It was thrown into the gutter! It
was madness! It was hellish, such ill-fortune! Yet what could I do? If I
had been absent from here--I, Coulois, whom men know of--even the police
would have had no excuse. So it was Martin who must lead. Our armoury
had never been fuller. There were revolvers for every one, ammunition
for a thousand.... Pardon, monsieur, but I cannot talk of this affair.
The anger rises so hot in my heart that I fear to betray myself to those
who may be listening. And besides, you have not come here to talk with
me of it."

"It is true," Selingman confessed.

There was a brief silence. The dancer was studying them both. There was
uneasiness in his expression.

"I do not understand," he enquired hoarsely, "how you came by the
passwords?"

"Make yourself wholly at ease, my young friend," Selingman begged him
reassuringly. "We are men of the world, my friend and I. We seek our own
ends in life and we have often to make use of the nearest and the best
means for the purpose of securing them. Martin has served me before. A
week ago I should have gone to him. To-night, as you know, he lies in
prison."

"Martin, indeed!" the dancer jeered. "You would have gone, then, to a
man of sawdust, a chicken-livered bungler! What is it that you want
done? Speak to me. I am a man."

The leader of the orchestra was essaying upon his violin the tentative
strains of a popular air. The girl had reappeared and was poising
herself upon her toes. The leader of the orchestra summoned Coulois.

"I must dance," he announced. "Afterwards I will return."

He leapt lightly to his feet and swung into the room with extended arms.
Draconmeyer looked down at his plate.

"It is a risk, this, we are running," he muttered. "I do not see,
Selingman, why you could not have hired this fellow through Allen or one
of the others."

Selingman shook his head.

"See here, Draconmeyer," he explained, "this is one of the cases where
agents are dangerous. For Allen to have been seen with Jean Coulois here
would have been the same as though I had been seen with him myself. I
cannot, alas! in this place, with my personality, keep my identity
concealed. They know that I am Selingman. They know well that wherever I
move, I have with me men of my Secret Service. I cannot use them against
Hunterleys. Too many are in the know. Here we are simply two visitors
who talk to a dancer. We depart. We do not see him again until
afterwards. Besides, this is where fate is with us. What more natural
than that the Wolves should revenge themselves upon the man who captured
one of their leaders? It was the young American, Richard Lane, who
really started the debacle, but it was Hunterleys who seized Martin.
What more natural than revenge? These fellows hang by one another
always."

Draconmeyer nodded with grim approval.

"It was devilish work he did in Sofia," he said softly. "But for him,
much of this would have been unnecessary."

The dance was over. Both men joined enthusiastically in the applause.
Coulois, with an insolent nod to his admirers, returned to his seat. He
threw himself back in his chair, crossed his legs and held out his empty
glass. Though he had been dancing furiously, there was not a single bead
of perspiration upon his forehead.

"You are in good condition, my friend," Selingman observed admiringly.

"I need to be for my work," Coulois replied. "Let us get to business.
There is no need to mince words. What do you want with me? Who is the
quarry?"

"The man who ruined your little affair at La Turbie and captured your
comrade Martin," Selingman whispered. "You see, you have every
provocation to start with."

Coulois' eyes glittered.

"He was an Englishman," he muttered.

"Quite true," Selingman assented. "His name is Hunterleys--Sir Henry
Hunterleys. He lives at the Hotel de Paris. His room is number 189. He
spends his time upon the Terrace, at the Cafe de Paris, and in the
Sporting Club. Every morning he goes to the English Bank for his
letters, deals with them in his room, calls at the post-office and takes
a walk, often up into the hills."

"Come, come, this is not so bad!" Coulois exclaimed. "They laugh at us
in the cafes and down in the wine shops of Monaco, those who know," he
went on, frowning. "They say that the Wolves have become sheep. We shall
see! It is an affair, this, worth considering. What do you pay, Monsieur
le Gros, and for how long do you wish him out of the way?"

"The pay," Selingman announced, "is two hundred louis, and the man must
be in hospital for at least a fortnight."

Draconmeyer leaned suddenly forward. His eyes were bright, his hands
gripped the table.

"Listen!" he whispered in Coulois' ear. "Are the Wolves sheep, indeed,
that they can do no more than twist ankles and break heads? That two
hundred shall be five hundred, Jean Coulois, but it must be a cemetery
to which they take him, and not a hospital!"

[Illustration: "That two hundred shall be five hundred, but it must be a
cemetery to which they take him!"]

There was a moment's silence. Selingman sat back in his place. He was
staring at his companion with wide-open eyes. Jean Coulois was
moistening his lips with his tongue, his eyes were brilliant.

"Five hundred louis!" he repeated under his breath.

"Is it not enough?" Draconmeyer asked coldly. "I do not believe in half
measures. The man who is wounded may be well before he is welcome. If
five hundred louis is not enough, name your price, but let there be no
doubt. Let me see what the Wolves can do when it is their leader who
handles the knife!"

The face of the dancer was curiously impassive. He lifted his glass and
drained it.

"An affair of death!" he exclaimed softly. "We Wolves--we bite, we
wound, we rob. But death--ugh! There are ugly things to be thought of."

"And pleasant ones," Draconmeyer reminded him. "Five hundred louis is
not enough. It shall be six hundred. A man may do much with six hundred
golden louis."

Selingman sat forward once more in his place.

"Look here," he intervened, "you go too far, my friend. You never spoke
to me of this. What have you against Hunterleys?"

"His nationality," Draconmeyer answered coolly. "I hate all Englishmen!"

The gaiety had left Selingman's face. He gazed at his companion with a
curious expression.

"My friend," he murmured, "I fear that you are vindictive."

"Perhaps," Draconmeyer replied quietly. "In these matters I like to be
on the safe side."

Jean Coulois struck the table lightly with his small, feminine hand. He
showed all his teeth as though he had been listening to an excellent
joke.

"It is to be done," he decided. "There is no more to be said."

Some visitors had taken the next table. Coulois drew his chair a little
closer to Draconmeyer.

"I accept the engagement," he continued. "We will talk no more. Monsieur
desires my address? It is here,"--scribbling on a piece of paper. "But
monsieur may be warned," he added, with a lightning-like flash in his
eyes as he became conscious of the observation of some passers-by. "I
will not dance in England. I will not leave Monte Carlo before May. Half
that sum--three hundred louis, mind--must come to me on trust; the other
three hundred afterwards. Never fear but that I will give satisfaction.
Keep your part of the bargain," he added, under his breath, "and the
Wolves' fangs are already in this man's throat."

He danced again. The two men watched him. Draconmeyer's face was as
still and colourless as ever. In Selingman's there was a shade of
something almost like repulsion. He poured himself out a glass of
champagne.

"Draconmeyer," he exclaimed, "you are a cold-blooded fish, indeed! You
can sit there without blinking and think of this thing which we have
done. Now as for me, I have a heart. I can never see the passing out of
the game of even a bitter opponent, without a shiver. Talk philosophy to
me, Draconmeyer. My nerves are shaken."

Draconmeyer turned his head. He, too, raised his wine to his lips and
drank deliberately.

"My friend," he said, "there is no philosophy save one. A child cries
for the star he may not have; the weak man comforts himself in privation
by repeating to himself the dry-as-dust axioms conceived in an alien
brain, and weaving from them the miserable comfort of empty words. The
man who knows life and has found wisdom, pays the price for the thing he
desires, and obtains it!"




VII

DUTY INTERFERES AGAIN


Hunterleys sat that night alone in a seat at the Opera for a time and
lost himself in a maze of recollections. He seemed to find himself
growing younger as he listened to the music. The days of a more vivid
and ardent sentimentality seemed to reassert themselves. He thought of
the hours when he had sat side by side with his wife, the only woman to
whom he had ever given a thought; of the thrill which even the touch of
her fingers had given him, of the drive home together, the little
confidences and endearments, the glamour which seemed to have been
thrown over life before those unhappy misunderstandings. He remembered
so well the beginning of them all--the terrible pressure of work which
was thrown upon his shoulders, his engrossed days, his disturbed nights;
her patience at first, her subsequent petulance, her final anger. He was
engaged often in departmental work which he could not even explain. She
had taken up with unhappy facility the role of a neglected wife. She
declared that he had ceased to care for the lighter ways. There had
certainly been a time when her complaints had been apparently justified,
when the Opera had been banned, theatres were impossible, when she could
not even rely upon his escort to a dinner or to a reception. He had
argued with her very patiently at first but very unsuccessfully. It was
then that her friendship with Linda Draconmeyer had been so vigorously
renewed, a friendship which seemed from the first to have threatened his
happiness. Had it been his fault? he wondered. Had he really been too
much engrossed in his work? His country had made large demands upon him
in those days. Had he ever explained the matter fully and carefully
enough to her? Perhaps not. At any rate, he was the sufferer. He
realised more than ever, as the throbbing of the music stole into his
blood, the loneliness of his life. And yet it seemed so hopeless.
Supposing he threw up his work and let things take their course? The
bare thought chilled him. He recognised it as unworthy. The great song
of mortification from the broken hero rang in his ears. Must every woman
bring to every man the curse of Delilah!...

He passed out of the building into the cool, starlit night. People were
strolling about in evening clothes, hatless, the women in white opera
cloaks and filmy gowns, their silk-stockinged feet very much in
evidence, resembling almost some strange kind of tropical birds with
their little shrill laughter and graceful movements, as they made their
way towards the Club or round to the Rooms, or to one of the restaurants
for supper. Whilst Hunterleys hesitated, there was a touch upon his arm.
He glanced around.

"Hullo, David!" he exclaimed. "Were you waiting for me?"

The young man fell into step by his side.

"I have been to the hotel," he said, in a low tone. "They thought you
might be here. Can you come up later--say at one o'clock?"

"Certainly," Hunterleys answered. "Where's Sidney?"

"He's working now. He'll be home by half-past twelve unless anything
goes wrong. He thinks he'll have something to tell you."

"I'll come," Hunterleys agreed. "How's Felicia?"

"All right, but working herself to death," the young man replied. "She
is getting anxious, too. Give her a word of encouragement if you see her
to-night. She was hoping you might have been up to see her."

"I won't forget," Hunterleys promised.

The young man drifted silently away, and Hunterleys, after a moment's
hesitation and a glance at his watch, turned towards the Club. He
climbed the broad staircase, surrendered his hat and turned in at the
roulette room. The magic of the music was still in his veins, and he
looked around him almost eagerly. There was no sign of Violet. He
strolled into the baccarat room but she was not there. Perhaps she, too,
had been at the Opera. In the bar he found Richard Lane, sitting moodily
alone. The young man greeted him warmly.

"Come and have a drink, Sir Henry," he begged. "I've got the hump."

Hunterleys sat down by his side.

"Whiskey and apollinaris," he ordered. "What's the matter with you,
Richard?"

"She isn't here," the young man declared. "I've been to the Rooms and
she isn't there either."

"What about the Opera?" Hunterleys asked.

"I started at the Opera," Lane confessed, "took a box so as to be able
to see the whole house. I sat through the first act but there wasn't a
sign of her. Then I took a spin out and had another look at the villa.
It was all lit up as though there were a party. I very nearly marched
in."

"Just as well you didn't, I think," Hunterleys remarked, smiling. "I see
you're feeling just the same about it."

The young man did not even vouchsafe an answer.

"Then you're not going to take advantage of your little warning and
clear out?" Hunterleys continued.

"Don't you think I'm big enough to take care of myself?" Lane asked,
with a little laugh. "Besides, there's an American Consul here, and
plenty of English witnesses who saw the whole thing. Can't think why
they're trying on such a silly game."

"Mr. Grex may have influence," Hunterleys suggested.

"Who the mischief is my prospective father-in-law?" Richard demanded,
almost testily. "There's an atmosphere about that house and the servants
I can't understand a bit."

"You wouldn't," Hunterleys observed drily. "Well, in a day or two I'll
tell you who Mr. Grex is. I'd rather not to-night."

"By the way," Lane continued, "your wife was asking if you were here, a
few minutes ago."

Hunterleys rose quickly to his feet.

"Where is she?"

"She was at her usual place at the top roulette table, but she gave it
up just as I passed, said she was going to walk about," the young man
replied. "I don't think she has left yet."

Hunterleys excused himself hastily. In the little space between the
restaurant and the roulette rooms he came suddenly upon Violet. She was
leaning back in an obscure corner, with her hands clasped helplessly in
her lap before her. She was sitting quite still and his heart sank when
he saw her. The lines under her eyes were unmistakable now; her cheeks,
too, seemed to have grown hollow. Her first look at him almost made him
forget all their differences. There was something piteous in the tremble
of her lips. He drew a chair to her side.

"Richard told me that you wished to speak to me," he began, as lightly
as he could.

"I asked if he had seen you, a few minutes ago," she admitted. "I am
afraid that my interest was rather mercenary."

"You want to borrow some money?" he enquired, taking out his
pocket-book.

She looked at it, and though her eyes at first were listless, they still
seemed fascinated.

"I don't think I can play any more to-night," she sighed.

"You have been losing?"

"Yes!"

"Come and have something," he invited. "You look tired."

She rose willingly enough. They passed out, side by side, into the
little bar.

"Some champagne?" he suggested.

She shook her head quickly. The memory of the champagne at dinner-time
came back to her with a sudden sickening insistence. She thought of the
loan, she thought of Draconmeyer with a new uneasiness. It was as though
she had admitted some new complication into her life.

"Could I have some tea?" she begged.

He ordered some and sat with her while she drank it.

"You know," he declared, "if I might be permitted to say so, I think you
are taking the gaming here a little too seriously. If you have been
unlucky, it is very easy to arrange an advance for you. Would you like
some money? If so, I will see to it when I go to the bank to-morrow. I
can let you have a hundred pounds at once, if you like."

A hundred pounds! If only she dared tell him that she had lost a
thousand within the last two hours! Once more he was fingering his
pocket-book.

"Come," he went on pleasantly, "you had better have a hundred from me,
for luck."

He counted out the notes. Her fingers began to shake.

"I didn't mean to play any more to-night," she faltered, irresolutely.

"Nor should I," he agreed. "Take my advice, Violet, and go home now.
This will do for you to-morrow."

She took the money and dropped it into her jewelled bag.

"Very well," she said, "I won't play any more, but I don't want to go
home yet. It is early, and I can never sleep here if I go to bed. Sit
with me for half-an-hour, and then perhaps you could give me some
supper?"

He shook his head.

"I am so sorry," he answered, "but at one o'clock I have an
appointment."

"An appointment?"

"Such bad luck," he continued. "It would have given me very great
pleasure to have had supper with you, Violet."

"An appointment at one o'clock," she repeated slowly. "Isn't that just a
little--unusual?"

"Perhaps so," he assented. "I can assure you that I am very sorry."

She leaned suddenly towards him. The aloofness had gone from her manner.
The barrier seemed for a moment to have fallen down. Once more she was
the Violet he remembered. She smiled into his face, and smiled with her
eyes as well as her lips, just the smile he had been thinking of an hour
ago in the Opera House.

"Don't go, please," she begged. "I am feeling lonely to-night and I am
so tired of everybody and everything. Take me to supper at the Cafe de
Paris. Then, if you like, we might come back here for half-an-hour.
Or--"

She hesitated.

"I am horribly sorry," he declared, in a tone which was full of real
regret. "Indeed, Violet, I am. But I have an appointment which I must
keep, and I can't tell exactly how long it may take me."

The very fact that the nature of that appointment concerned things which
from the first he had made up his mind must be kept entirely secret,
stiffened his tone. Her manner changed instantly. She had drawn herself
a little away. She considered for a moment.

"Are you inclined to tell me with whom your appointment is, and for what
purpose?" she asked coldly. "I don't want to be exacting, but after the
request I have made, and your refusal--"

"I cannot tell you," he interrupted. "I can only ask you to take my word
for it that it is one which I must keep."

She rose suddenly to her feet.

"I forgot!" she exclaimed. "I haven't the slightest right to your
confidence. Besides, when I come to think of it, I don't believe that I
am hungry at all. I shall try my luck with your money?"

"Violet!--"

She swept away with a little farewell nod, half insolent, half angry.
Hunterleys watched her take her place at the table. For several moments
he stood by her side. She neither looked up nor addressed him. Then he
turned and left the place.




VIII

A MIDNIGHT CONFERENCE


Hunterleys remained in the hotel only long enough to change his straw
hat for a cap, put on a long, light overcoat and take an ash stick from
his wardrobe. He left the place by an unfrequented entrance and
commenced at once to climb to the back part of the town. Once or twice
he paused and looked around, to be sure that he was not followed. When
he had arrived as far as the Hotel de Prince de Galles, he crossed the
road. From here he walked very quickly and took three turns in rapid
succession. Finally he pushed open a little gate and passed up a tiled
walk which led between a little border of rose trees to a small white
villa, covered with creepers. A slim, girlish figure came suddenly out
from the porch and danced towards him with outstretched hands.

"At last!" she exclaimed. "At last! Tell me, my co-guardian, how you are
going to excuse yourself?"

He took her outstretched hands and looked down into her face. She was
very small and dark, with lustrous brown eyes and a very sensitive
mouth, which just now was quivering with excitement.

"All the excuses have gone out of my head, Felicia," he declared. "You
look such a little elf in the moonlight that I can't do more than say
that I am sorry. But I have been busy."

She was suddenly serious. She clasped his arm with both her hands and
turned towards the house.

"Of course you have," she sighed. "It seems too bad, though, in Monte
Carlo. Sidney and David are like ghouls. I don't ask what it is all
about--I know better--but I wish it were all over, whatever it is."

"Is Sidney back?" Hunterleys asked eagerly.

She nodded.

"He came in half-an-hour ago, looking like a tramp. David is writing as
though he hadn't a moment to spare in life. They are both waiting for
you, I think."

"And you?" he enquired. "How do the rehearsals go?"

"The rehearsals are all right," she admitted, looking up at him almost
pathetically. "It's the night itself that seems so awful. I know every
word, I know every note, and yet I can't feel sure. I can't sleep for
thinking about it. Only last night I had a nightmare. I saw all those
rows and rows of faces, and the lights, and my voice went, my tongue was
dry and hard, not a word would come. And you were there--and the
others!"

He laughed at her.

"Little girl," he said solemnly, "I shall have to speak to Sidney. One
of those two young men must take you out for a day in the country
to-morrow."

"They seem so busy," she complained. "They don't seem to have time to
think of me. I suppose I had better let you go in. They'd be furious if
they thought I was keeping you."

They passed into the villa, and with a farewell pat of the hand
Hunterleys left her and opened a door on the left-hand side of the hall.
The young man who had met him coming out of the Opera was standing with
his hands in his pockets, upon the hearth-rug of an exceedingly
untidy-looking apartment. There was a table covered with papers, another
piled with newspapers. There were books upon the floor, pipes and
tobacco laid about haphazard. A space had been swept clear upon the
larger table for a typewriter, a telephone instrument stood against the
wall. A man whose likeness to Felicia was at once apparent, swung round
in his chair as Hunterleys entered. He had taken off his coat and
waistcoat and his trousers seemed smothered with dust.

"Regular newspaper correspondent's den," Hunterleys remarked, as he
looked around him. "I never saw such a mess in my life. I wonder Felicia
allows it."

"We don't let her come in," her brother chuckled. "Is the door closed?"

"Fast," Hunterleys replied, moving away from it.

"Things are moving," the other went on. "I took the small car out to-day
on the road to Cannes and I expect I was the first to see Douaille."

"I saw him myself," Hunterleys announced. "I was out on that road,
walking."

"Douaille," Roche continued, "went direct to the Villa Mimosa. Grex was
there, waiting for him. Draconmeyer and Selingman both kept out of the
way."

Hunterleys nodded.

"Reasonable enough, that. Grex was the man to pave the way. Well?"

"At ten o'clock, Draconmeyer and Selingman arrived. The Villa Mimosa
gets more difficult every day. I have only one friend in the house,
although it is filled with servants. Three-quarters of them only speak
Russian. My man's reliable but he is in a terrible minority. The
conference took place in the library. It lasted about an hour and a
half. Selingman and Draconmeyer came out looking fairly well satisfied.
Half-an-hour later Douaille went on to Mentone, to the Hotel Splendide,
where his wife and daughters are staying. No writing at all was done in
the room."

"The conference has really begun, then," Hunterleys observed moodily.

"Without a doubt," Roche declared. "I imagine, though, that the meeting
this evening was devoted to preliminaries. I am hoping next time," he
went on, "to be able to pass on a little of what is said."

"If we could only get the barest idea as to the nature of the
proposals," Hunterleys said earnestly. "Of course, one can surmise. Our
people are already warned as to the long conferences which have taken
place between Grex and Selingman. They mean something--there's no doubt
about that. And then this invitation to Douaille, and his coming here so
furtively. Everything points the same way, but a few spoken words are
better than all the surmises in the world. It isn't that they are
unreasonable at home, but they must be convinced."

"It's the devil's own risk," Roche sighed, "but I am hard at it. I was
about the place yesterday as much as I dared. My plans are all ready now
but things looked pretty awkward at the villa to-night. If they are
going to have the grounds patrolled by servants every time they meet,
I'm done. I've cut a pane of glass out of the dome over the library, and
I've got a window-cleaning apparatus round at the back, and a ladder.
The passage along the roof is quite easy and there's a good deal of
cover amongst the chimneys, but if they get a hint, it will be touch and
go."

Hunterleys nodded. He was busy now, going through the long sheets of
writing which the other young man had silently passed across to him. For
half-an-hour he read, making pencil notes now and then in the margin.
When at last he had finished, he returned them and, sitting down at the
table, drew a packet of press cable sheets towards him and wrote for
some time steadily. When he had finished, he read through the result of
his labours and leaned back thoughtfully in his chair.

"You will send this off from Cannes with your own, Briston?" he asked.

The young man assented.

"The car will be here at three," he announced. "They'll be on their way
by eight."

"Press message, mind, to the _Daily Post_. If the operator wants to know
what 'Number 1' means after '_Daily Post_,' you can tell him that it
simply indicates to which editorial room the message is to be
delivered."

"That's a clever idea," Roche mused. "Code dispatches to Downing Street
might cause a little comment."

"They wouldn't do from here," Hunterleys declared. "They might be safe
enough from Cannes but it's better to run no risks. These will be passed
on to Downing Street, unopened. Be careful to-morrow, Sidney."

"I can't see that they can do anything but throw me out, Sir Henry,"
Roche remarked. "I have my _Daily Post_ authority in my pocket, and my
passport. Besides, I got the man here to announce in the _Monte Carlo
News_ that I was the accredited correspondent for the district, and that
David Briston had been appointed by a syndicate of illustrated papers to
represent them out here. That's in case we get a chance of taking
photographs. I had some idea of going out to interview Monsieur
Douaille."

Hunterleys shook his head.

"I shouldn't. The man's as nervous as he can be now, I am pretty sure of
that. Don't do anything that might put him on his guard. Mind, for all
we know he may be an honest man. To listen to what these fellows have to
say doesn't mean that he's prepared to fall in with their schemes. By
the by, you've nothing about the place, I suppose, if you should be
raided?"

"Not a thing," was the confident reply. "We are two English newspaper
correspondents, and there isn't a thing to be found anywhere that's not
in keeping, except my rather large make-up outfit and my somewhat mixed
wardrobe. I am not the only newspaper correspondent who goes in for
that, though. Then there's Felicia. They all know who she is and they
all know that she's my sister. Anyhow, even if I do get into trouble up
at the Villa Mimosa, I can't see that I shall be looked upon as anything
more than a prying newspaper correspondent. They can't hang me for
that."

Hunterleys accepted a cigarette and lit it.

"I needn't tell you fellows," he said gravely, "that this place is a
little unlike any other in Europe. You may think you're safe enough, but
all the same I wouldn't trust a living soul. By-the-by, I saw Felicia as
I came in. You don't want her to break down, do you?"

"Good heavens, no!" her brother exclaimed.

"Break down?" David repeated. "Don't suggest such a thing!"

"It struck me that she was rather nervy," Hunterleys told them. "One of
you ought to look after her for an hour or two to-morrow."

"I can't spare a moment," her brother sighed.

"I'll take her out," Briston declared eagerly. "There's nothing for me
to do to-morrow till Sidney gets back."

"Well, between you, keep an eye on her," Hunterleys advised. "And,
Sidney, I don't want to make a coward of you, and you and I both know
that if there's danger ahead it's our job to face it, but have a care up
at the Villa Mimosa. I don't fancy the law of this Principality would
see you out of any trouble if they got an idea that you were an English
Secret Service man."

Roche laughed shortly.

"Exactly my own idea," he admitted. "However, we've got to see it
through. I sha'n't consider I've done my work unless I hear something of
what Grex and the others have to say to Douaille the next time they
meet."

Hunterleys found Felicia waiting for him outside. He shook his head
reproachfully.

"A future prima donna," he said, "should go to bed at ten o'clock."

She opened the door for him and walked down the path, her hands clasped
in his arm.

"A future prima donna," she retorted, "can't do always what she likes.
If I go to bed too early I cannot sleep. To-night I am excited and
nervous. There isn't anything likely to bring trouble upon--them, is
there?"

"Certainly not," he replied promptly. "Your brother is full of
enterprise, as you know. He runs a certain amount of risk in his
eagerness to acquire news, but I never knew a man so well able to take
care of himself."

"And--and Mr. Briston?"

"Oh, he's all right, anyway," Hunterleys assured her. "His is the
smaller part."

She breathed a little sigh of relief. They had reached the gate. She
still had something to say. Below them flared the lights of Monte Carlo.
She looked down at them almost wistfully.

"Very soon," she murmured, "I shall know my fate. Sir Henry," she added
suddenly, "did I see Lady Hunterleys to-day on the Terrace?"

"Lady Hunterleys is here," he replied.

"Am I--ought I to go and see her?" she enquired. "You see, you have done
so much for me, I should like to do what you thought best."

"Just as you like, child," he replied, a little carelessly.

She clung to his arm. She seemed unwilling to let him go.

"Dear co-guardian," she murmured, "to-night I felt for a little time so
happy, as though all the good things in life were close at hand. Then I
watched you come up, and your step seemed so heavy, and you stooped as
though you had a load on your shoulders."

He patted her hand.

"Little girl," he advised, "run away in and take care of your throat.
Remember that everything depends upon the next few hours. As for me,
perhaps I am getting a little old."

"Oh, la, la!" she laughed. "That's what Sidney says when I tease him. I
know I am only the mouse, but I could gnaw through very strong cords.
Look!"

Her teeth gleamed white in the moonlight. He swung open the gate.

"Sing your way into the hearts of all these strange people," he bade
her, smiling. "Sing the envy and malice away from them. Sing so that
they believe that England, after all, is the one desirable country."

"But I am going to sing in French," she pouted.

"Your name," he reminded her, "that is English. 'The little English
prima donna,' that is what they will be calling you."

She kissed his hands suddenly as he parted from her and swung off down
the hill. Then she stood at the gate, looking down at the glittering
lights. Would they shine as brightly for her, she wondered, in
twenty-four hours' time? It was so much to strive for, so much to lose,
so wonderfully much to gain. Slowly her eyes travelled upwards. The
symbolism of those higher lights calmed her fear. She drew a great sigh
of happiness.

"Felicia!"

She turned around with a soft little laugh.

"David!"




IX

"TAKE ME AWAY!"


Richard presented himself the next morning at the Hotel de Paris.

"Cheero!" he exclaimed, on being shown into Hunterleys' sitting-room.
"All right up to date, I see."

Hunterleys nodded. He had just come in from the bank and held his
letters in his hand. Richard seated himself on the edge of the table.

"I slept out on the yacht last night," he said. "Got up at six o'clock
and had a swim. What about a round of golf at La Turbie? We can get down
again by luncheon-time, before the people are about."

"Afraid I can't," Hunterleys replied. "I have rather an important letter
to go through carefully, and a reply to think out."

"You're a queer chap, you know," Richard went on. "You always seem to
have something on but I'm hanged if I can see how you pass your time
here in Monte Carlo. This political business, even if you do have to put
in a bit of time at it now and then, can't be going on all the while.
Monte Carlo, too! So far as the women are concerned, they might as well
be off the face of the earth, and I don't think I've ever seen you make
a bet at the tables. How did your wife do last night? I thought she
seemed to be dropping it rather."

"I think that she lost," Hunterleys replied indifferently. "Her
gambling, however, is like mine, I imagine, on a fairly negligible
scale."

Richard whistled softly.

"Well, I don't know," he observed. "I saw her going for maximums
yesterday pretty steadily. A few thousands doesn't last very long at
that little game."

Hunterleys smiled.

"A few thousands!" he repeated. "I don't suppose Violet has ever lost or
won a hundred pounds in her life."

Richard abandoned the subject quickly. He was obliged to tell himself
that it was not his business to interfere between husband and wife.

"Say, Hunterleys," he suggested, "do you think I could do something for
the crowd on my little boat--a luncheon party or a cruise, eh?"

"I should think every one would enjoy it immensely," Hunterleys
answered.

"I can count on you, of course, if I arrange anything?"

"I am afraid not," Hunterleys regretted. "I am too much engrossed now to
make any arrangements."

"I'm hanged if you don't get more mysterious every moment!" Richard
exclaimed vigorously. "What's it all about? Can't you even be safe in
your room for five minutes without keeping one of those little articles
under your newspaper while you read your letters?" he added, lifting
with his stick the sheet which Hunterleys had hastily thrown over a
small revolver. "What's it all about, eh? Are you plotting to dethrone
the Prince of Monaco and take his place?"

"Not exactly that," Hunterleys replied, a little wearily. "Lane, old
fellow, you're much better off not to know too much. I have told you
that there's a kind of international conference going on about here and
I've sort of been pitchforked into the affair. Over in your country you
don't know much about this sort of thing, but since I've been out of
harness I've done a good deal of what really amounts to Secret Service
work. One must serve one's country somehow or other, you know, if one
gets the chance."

Richard was impressed.

"Gee!" he exclaimed. "The sort of thing that one reads about, eh, and
only half believes. Who's the French Johnny who arrived last night?"

"Douaille. He's the coming President, they say. I'm thinking of paying
him a visit of ceremony this afternoon."

There was a knock at the door. A waiter entered with a note upon a
salver.

"From Madame, monsieur," he announced, presenting it to Hunterleys.

The latter tore it open and read the few lines hastily:

     _Dear Henry_,

     If you could spare a few minutes, I should be glad if you would
     come round to my apartment.

     Yours,
     VIOLET.

Hunterleys twisted the note up in his fingers.

"Tell Lady Hunterleys that I will be round in a few moments," he
instructed the servant.

Richard took up his stick and hat.

"If you have an opportunity," he said, "ask Lady Hunterleys what she
thinks about a little party on the yacht. If one could get the proper
people together--"

"I'll tell her," Hunterleys promised. "You'd better wait till I get
back."

He made his way to the other wing of the hotel. For the first time since
he had been staying there, he knocked at the door of his wife's
apartments. Her maid admitted him with a smile. He found Violet sitting
in the little salon before a writing-table. The apartment was
luxuriously furnished and filled with roses. Somehow or other, their
odour irritated him. She rose from her place and hastened towards him.

"How nice of you to come so promptly!" she exclaimed. "You're sure it
didn't inconvenience you?"

"Not in the least," he replied. "I was only talking to Richard Lane."

"You seem to have taken a great fancy to that young man all at once,"
she remarked.

Hunterleys was sitting upon the arm of an easy-chair. He had picked up
one of Violet's slippers and was balancing it in his hand.

"Oh, I don't know. He is rather refreshing after some of these people.
He still has enthusiasms, and his love affair is quite a poem. Aren't
you up rather early this morning?"

"I couldn't sleep," she sighed. "I think it has come to me in the night
that I am sick of this place. I wondered--"

She hesitated. He bent the slipper slowly back, waiting for her to
proceed.

"The Draconmeyers don't want to go," she went on. "They are here for
another month, at least. Linda would miss me terribly, I suppose, but I
have really given her a lot of my time. I have spent several hours with
her every day since we arrived, and I don't know what it is--perhaps my
bad luck, for one thing--but I have suddenly taken a dislike to the
place. I wondered--"

She had picked up one of the roses from a vase close at hand, and was
twirling it between her fingers. For some reason or other she seemed ill
at ease. Hunterleys watched her silently. She was very pale, but since
his coming a slight tinge of pink colour had stolen into her cheeks. She
had received him in a very fascinating garment of blue silk, which was
really only a dressing-gown. It seemed to him a long time since he had
seen her in so intimate a fashion.

"I wondered," she concluded at last, almost abruptly, "whether you would
care to take me away."

He was, for a moment, bereft of words. Somehow or other, he had been so
certain that she had sent to him to ask for more money, that he had
never even considered any other eventuality.

"Take you away," he repeated. "Do you really mean take you back to
London, Violet?"

"Just anywhere you like," she replied. "I am sick of this place and of
everything. I am weary to death of trying to keep Linda cheerful--you
don't realise how depressing it is to be with her; and--and every one
seems to have got a little on my nerves. Mr. Draconmeyer," she added, a
little defiantly, raising her eyes to his, "has been most kind and
delightful, but--somehow I want to get away."

He sat down on the edge of a couch. She seated herself at the further
end of it.

"Violet," he said, "you have taken me rather by surprise."

"Well, you don't mind being taken by surprise once in a while, do you?"
she asked, a little petulantly. "You know I am capricious--you have told
me so often enough. Here is a proof of it. Take me back to London or to
Paris, or wherever you like."

He was almost overwhelmed. It was unfortunate that she had chosen that
moment to look away and could not see, therefore, the light which glowed
in his eyes.

"Violet," he assured her earnestly, "there is nothing in the world I
should like so much. I would beg you to have your trunks packed this
morning, but unfortunately I cannot leave Monte Carlo just now."

"Cannot leave Monte Carlo?" she repeated derisively. "Why, my dear man,
you are a fish out of water here! You don't gamble, you do nothing but
moon about and go to the Opera and worry about your silly politics. What
on earth do you mean when you say that you cannot leave Monte Carlo?"

"I mean just what I say," he replied. "I cannot leave Monte Carlo for
several days, at any rate."

She looked at him blankly, a little incredulously.

"You have talked like this before, Henry," she said, "and it is all too
absurd. You must tell me the truth now. You can have no business here.
You are travelling for pleasure. You can surely leave a place or not at
your own will?"

"It happens," he sighed, "that I cannot. Will you please be very kind,
Violet, and not ask me too much about this? If there is anything else I
can do," he went on, hesitatingly, "if you will give me a little more of
your time, if you will wait with me for a few days longer--"

"Can't you understand," she interrupted impatiently, "that it is just
this very moment, this instant, that I want to get away? Something has
gone wrong. I want to leave Monte Carlo. I am not sure that I ever want
to see it again. And I want you to take me.... Please!"

She held out her hands, swaying a little towards him. He gripped them in
his. She yielded to their pressure until their lips almost met.

"You'll take me away this morning?" she whispered.

"I cannot do that," he replied, "but, Violet--"

She snatched herself away from him. An ungovernable fit of fury seemed
to have seized her. She stood in the centre of the room and stamped her
foot.

"You cannot!" she repeated. "And you will not give me a reason? Very
well, I have done my best, I have made my appeal. I will stay in Monte
Carlo, then. I will--"

There was a knock at the door.

"Come in," she cried. "Who is it?"

The door was softly opened. Draconmeyer stood upon the threshold. He
looked from one to the other in some surprise.

"I am sorry," he murmured. "Please excuse me."

"Come in, Mr. Draconmeyer," she called out to his retreating figure.
"Come in, please. How is Linda this morning?"

Draconmeyer smiled a little ruefully as he returned.

"Complaining," he replied, "as usual. I am afraid that she has had
rather a bad night. She is going to try and sleep for an hour or two. I
came to see if you felt disposed for a motor ride this morning?"

"I should love it," she assented. "I should like to start as soon as
possible. Henry was just going, weren't you?" she added, turning to her
husband.

He stood his ground.

"There was something else I wished to say," he declared, glancing at
Draconmeyer.

The latter moved at once towards the door but Violet stopped him.

"Not now," she begged. "If there is really anything else, Henry, you can
send up a note, or I dare say we shall meet at the Club to-night. Now,
please, both of you go away. I must change my clothes for motoring. In
half an hour, Mr. Draconmeyer."

"The car will be ready," he answered.

Hunterleys hesitated. He looked for a moment at Violet. She returned his
glance of appeal with a hard, fixed stare. Then she turned away.

"Susanne," she called to her maid, who was in the inner room, "I am
dressing at once. I will show you what to put out."

She disappeared, closing the connecting door behind her. The two men
walked out to the lift in silence. Draconmeyer rang the bell.

"You are not leaving Monte Carlo at present, then, Sir Henry?" he
remarked.

"Not at present," Hunterleys replied calmly.

They parted without further speech. Hunterleys returned to his room,
where Richard was still waiting.

"Say, have you got a valet here with you?" the young man enquired.

Hunterleys shook his head.

"Never possessed such a luxury in my life," he declared.

"Chap came in here directly you were gone--mumbled something about doing
something for you. I didn't altogether like the look of him, so I sat on
the table and watched. He hung around for a moment, and then, when he
saw that I was sticking it out, he went off."

"Was he wearing the hotel livery?" Hunterleys asked quickly.

"Plain black clothes," Richard replied. "He looked the valet, right
enough."

Hunterleys rang the bell. It was answered by a servant in grey livery.

"Are you the valet on this floor?" Hunterleys enquired.

"Yes, sir!"

"There was a man in here just now, said he was my valet or something of
the sort, hung around for a minute or two and then went away. Who was
he?"

The servant shook his head. He was apparently a German, and stupid.

"There are no valets on this floor except myself," he declared.

"Then who could this person have been?" Hunterleys demanded.

"A tailor, perhaps," the man suggested, "but he would not come unless
you had ordered him. I have been on duty all the time. I have seen no
one about."

"Very well," Hunterleys said, "I'll report the matter in the office."

"Some hotel thief, I suppose," Lane remarked, as soon as the door was
closed. "He didn't look like it exactly, though."

Hunterleys frowned.

"Not much here to satisfy any one's curiosity," he observed. "Just as
well you were in the room, though."

"Surrounded by mysteries, aren't you, old chap?" Richard yawned,
lighting a cigarette.

"I don't know exactly about that," Hunterleys replied, "but I'll tell
you one thing, Lane. There are things going on in Monte Carlo at the
present moment which would bring out the black headlines on the
halfpenny papers if they had an inkling of them. There are people here
who are trying to draw up a new map of Europe, a new map of the world."

Richard shook his head.

"I can't get interested in anything, Hunterleys," he declared. "You
could tell me the most amazing things in the world and they'd pass in at
one ear and out at the other. Kind of a blithering idiot, eh? You know
what I did last night after dinner. If you'll believe me, when I got to
the villa, I found the place patrolled as though they were afraid of
dynamiters. I skulked round to the back, got on the beach, and climbed a
little way up towards the rock garden. I hid there and waited to see if
she'd come out on the terrace. She never came, but I caught a glimpse of
her passing from one room to another, and I tell you I'm such a poor
sort of an idiot that I felt repaid for waiting there all that time. I
shall go there again to-night. The boys wanted me to dine--Eddy
Lanchester and Montressor and that lot--a jolly party, too. I sha'n't do
it. I shall have a mouthful alone somewhere and spend the rest of the
evening on those rocks. Something's got to come of this, Hunterleys."

"Let's go into the lounge for a few moments," Hunterleys suggested. "I
may as well hear all about it."

They made their way downstairs, and sat there talking, or rather
Hunterleys listened while Richard talked. Then Draconmeyer strolled
across the hall and waited by the lift. Presently he returned with
Violet by his side, followed by her maid, carrying rugs. As they
approached, Hunterleys rose slowly to his feet. Violet was looking up
into her companion's face, talking and laughing. She either did not see
Hunterleys, or affected not to. He stood, for a moment, irresolute.
Then, as she passed, she glanced at him quite blankly and waved her hand
to Richard. The two disappeared. Hunterleys resumed his seat. He had,
somehow or other, the depressing feeling of a man who has lost a great
opportunity.

"Lady Hunterleys looks well this morning," Lane remarked, absolutely
unconscious of anything unusual.

Hunterleys watched the car drive off before he answered.

"She looks very well," he assented gloomily.




X

WILY MR. DRACONMEYER


They had skirted the wonderful bay and climbed the mountainous hill to
the frontier before Violet spoke. All the time Draconmeyer leaned back
by her side, perfectly content. A man of varied subtleties, he
understood and fully appreciated the intrinsic value of silence. Whilst
the Customs officer, however, was making out the deposit note for the
car, she turned to him.

"Will you tell me something, Mr. Draconmeyer?"

"Of course!"

"It is about my husband," she went on. "Henry isn't your friend--you
dislike one another, I know. You men seem to have a sort of freemasonry
which compels you to tell falsehoods about one another, but in this case
I am going to remind you that I have the greater claim, and I am going
to ask you for the sober truth. Henry has once or twice, during the last
few days, hinted to me that his presence in Monte Carlo just now has
some sort of political significance. He is very vague about it all, but
he evidently wants me to believe that he is staying here against his own
inclinations. Now I want to ask you a plain question. Is it likely that
he could have any business whatever to transact for the Government in
Monte Carlo? What I mean is, could there possibly be anything to keep
him in this place which for political reasons he couldn't tell me
about?"

"I can answer your question finally so far as regards any Government
business," Mr. Draconmeyer assured her. "Your husband's Party is in
Opposition. As a keen politician, he would not be likely to interest
himself in the work of his rival."

"You are quite sure," she persisted, "you are quite sure that he could
not have a mission of any sort?--that there isn't any meeting of
diplomatists here in which he might be interested?"

Mr. Draconmeyer smiled with the air of one listening to a child's
prattle.

"If I were not sure that you are in earnest--!" he began. "However, I
will just answer your question. Nothing of the sort is possible.
Besides, people don't come to Monte Carlo for serious affairs, you
know."

Her face hardened a little.

"I suppose," she said, "that you are quite sure of what you told me the
other evening about this young singer--Felicia Roche?"

"I should not allude to a matter of that sort," he declared, "unless I
had satisfied myself as to the facts. It is true that I owe nothing to
your husband and everything to you, or I should have probably remained
silent. As it is, all that I know is at your service. Felicia Roche is
to make her debut at the Opera House to-night. Your husband has been
seen with her repeatedly. He was at her villa at one o'clock this
morning. I have heard it said that he is a little infatuated."

"Thank you," she murmured, "that is quite enough."

The formalities were concluded and the car drove on. They paused at the
last turn to gaze downward at the wonderful view--the gorgeous Bay of
Mentone, a thousand feet below, with its wealth of mimosa-embosomed
villas; Monte Carlo glittering on the sea-board; the sweep of Monaco,
red-roofed, picturesque. And behind, the mountains, further away still,
the dim, snow-capped heights. Violet looked, as she was bidden, but her
eyes seemed incapable of appreciation. When the car moved on, she leaned
back in her seat and dropped her veil. She was paler even than when they
had started.

"I am going to talk to you very little," he said gravely. "I want you
just to rest and breathe this wonderful air. If my reply to your
question troubles you, I am sorry, but you had to know it some day. It
is a wrench, of course, but you must have guessed it. Your husband is a
man of peculiar temperament, but no man could have refused such an offer
as you made him, unless there had been some special reason for it--no
man in the world."

There was a little tremble in his tone, artistic and not overdone.
Somehow, she felt that his admiration ministered to her self-respect.
She permitted his hand to remain upon hers. The touch of her fingers
very nearly brought the torrent from his lips. He crushed the words
down, however. It was too great a risk. Very soon things would be
different; he could afford to wait.

They drove on to San Remo and turned into the hotel.

"You are better away from Monte Carlo for a few hours," he decided. "We
will lunch here and drive back afterwards. You will feel greatly
refreshed."

She accepted his suggestion without enthusiasm and with very little show
of pleasure. They found a table on the terrace in a retired corner,
surrounded with flowering cactus plants and drooping mimosa, and
overhung by a giant oleander tree. He talked to her easily but in
gossiping fashion only, and always with the greatest respect. It was not
until the arrival of their coffee that he ventured to become at all
personal.

"Will you forgive me if I talk without reserve for a few moments?" he
began, leaning a little towards her. "You have your troubles, I know.
May I not remind you that you are not alone in your sorrows? Linda, as
you know, has no companionship whatever to offer. She does nothing but
indulge in fretful regrets over her broken health. When I remember, too,
how lonely your days are, and think of your husband and what he might
make of them, then I cannot help realising with absolute vividness the
supreme irony of fate. Here am I, craving for nothing so much on earth
as the sympathy, the affection of--shall I say such a woman as you? And
your husband, who might have the best, remains utterly indifferent,
content with something far below the second best. And there is so much
in life, too," he went on, regretfully. "I cannot tell you how difficult
it is for me to sit still and see you worried about such a trifle as
money. Fancy the joy of giving you money!"

She awoke a little from her lethargy. She looked at him, startled.

"You haven't told me yet," he added, "how the game went last night?"

"I lost every penny of that thousand pounds," she declared. "That is why
I sent for my husband this morning and asked him to take me back to
England. I am getting afraid of the place. My luck seems to have gone
for ever."

He laughed softly.

"That doesn't sound like you," he observed. "Besides, what does it
matter? Write me out some more cheques when we get back. Date them this
year or next, or the year after--it really doesn't matter a bit. My
fortune is at your disposal. If it amuses you to lose a thousand pounds
in the afternoon, and twice as much at night, pray do."

She laughed at him. There was a certain glamour about his words which
appealed to her fancy.

"Why, you talk like a prince," she murmured, "and yet you know how
impossible it is."

"Is it?" he asked quietly.

She rose abruptly from her place. There was something wrong--she felt it
in the atmosphere--something that was almost choking her.

"Let us go back," she insisted.

He ordered the car without another word and they started off homewards.
It was not until they were nearing Monte Carlo that he spoke of anything
save the slightest topics.

"You must have a little more money," he told her, in a matter-of-fact
tone. "That is a necessity. There is no need to worry your husband. I
shall go and bring you a thousand pounds. You can give me the cheques
later."

She sat looking steadfastly ahead of her. She seemed to see her numbers
spread out before her, to hear the click of the ball, the croupier's
voice, the thrill of victory.

"I have taken more money from you than I meant to, already, Mr.
Draconmeyer," she protested. "Does Linda know how much you have lent
me?"

He shrugged his shoulders.

"What is the use of telling her? She does not understand. She has never
felt the gambling fever, the joy of it, the excitement. She would not be
strong enough. You and I understand. I have felt it in the money-markets
of the world, where one plays with millions, where a mistake might mean
ruin. That is why the tables seem dull for me, but all the same it comes
home to me."

She felt the fierce stimulus of anxious thought. She knew very well that
notwithstanding his quiet manner, she had reason to fear the man who sat
by her side. She feared his self-restraint, she feared the light which
sometimes gleamed in his eyes when he fancied himself unobserved. He
gave her no cause for complaint. All the time his behaviour had been
irreproachable. And yet she felt, somehow or other, like a bird who is
being hunted by a trapper, a trapper who knows his business, who goes
about it with quiet confidence, with absolute certainty. There was
something like despair in her heart.

"Well, I suppose I shall have to stay here," she said, "and I can't stay
here without playing. I will take a thousand more, if you will lend it
to me."

"You shall have it directly we get to the hotel," he told her. "Don't
hurry with the cheques, and don't date them too soon. Remember that you
must have something to live on when you get back."

"I am going to win," she declared confidently. "I am going to win enough
to pay you back every penny."

"I won't say that I hope not," he observed, "for your sake, but it will
certainly give me no pleasure to have the money back again. You are such
a wonderful person," he added, dropping his voice, "that I rather like
to feel that I can be a little useful to you."

They had neared the end of their journey and Mr. Draconmeyer touched her
arm. A faint smile was playing about his lips. Certainly the fates were
befriending him! He said nothing, but her eyes followed the slight
motion of his head. Coming down the steps from Ciro's were her husband
and Felicia Roche. Violet looked at them for a moment. Then she turned
her head away.

"Most inopportune," she sighed, with a little attempt at gaiety. "Shall
we meet later at the Club?"

"Assuredly," Mr. Draconmeyer replied. "I will send the money to your
room."

"Thank you once more," she said, "and thank you, too, for my drive. I
have enjoyed it very much. I am very glad indeed that I had the courage
to make you tell me the truth."

"I hope," he whispered, as he handed her out, "that you will never lack
the courage to ask me anything."




XI

ASSASSINATION!


Selingman, a large cigar between his lips and a happy smile upon his
face, stood in the square before the Casino, watching the pigeons. He
had just enjoyed an excellent lunch, he was exceedingly pleased with a
new light grey suit which he was wearing, and his one unsatisfied desire
was for companionship. Draconmeyer was away motoring with Lady
Hunterleys, Mr. Grex was spending the early part of the day in conclave
with their visitor from France, and Mademoiselle Nipon had gone to Nice
for the day. Selingman had been left to his own devices and was
beginning to find time hang upon his hands. Conversation and
companionship were almost as great necessities with him as wine. He
beamed upon the pigeons and looked around at the people dotted about in
chairs outside the Cafe de Paris, hoping to find an acquaintance. It
chanced, however, that he saw nothing but strangers. Then his eyes fell
upon a man who was seated with folded arms a short distance away, a man
of respectable but somewhat gloomy appearance, dressed in dark clothes,
with pale cheeks and cavernous eyes. Selingman strolled towards him.

"How go things, friend Allen?" he enquired, dropping his voice a little.

The man glanced uneasily around. There was, however, no one in his
immediate vicinity.

"Badly," he admitted.

"Still no success, eh?" Selingman asked, drawing up a chair and seating
himself.

"The man is secretive by nature," was the gloomy reply. "One would
imagine that he knew he was being watched. Everything which he receives
in the way of a written communication is at once torn up. He is the most
difficult order of person to deal with--he is methodical. He has only
the hotel valet to look after his things but everything is always in its
place. Yesterday I went through his waste-paper basket. I took home the
contents but the pieces were no larger than sixpences. I was able to put
together one envelope which he received yesterday morning, which was
franked 'On His Majesty's Service,' and the post-mark of which was
Downing Street."

Selingman shook his head ponderously and then replied seriously:

"You must do better than that, my Sherlock Holmes--much better."

"I can't make bricks without straw," Allen retorted sullenly.

"There is always straw if one looks in the right place," Selingman
insisted, puffing away at his cigar. "What we want to discover is,
exactly how much does Hunterleys know of certain operations of ours
which are going on here? He is on the watch--that I am sure of. There is
one known agent in the place, and another suspected one, and I am pretty
certain that they are both working at his instigation. What we want to
get hold of is one of his letters to London."

"I have been in and out of his rooms at all hours," the other said. "I
have gone into the matter thoroughly, so thoroughly that I have taken a
situation with a firm of English tailors here, and I am supposed to go
out and tout for orders. That gives me a free entree to the hotel. I
have even had a commission from Sir Henry himself. He gave me a coat to
get some buttons sewn on. I am practically free of his room but what's
the good? He doesn't even lead the Monte Carlo life. He doesn't give one
a chance of getting at him through a third person. No notes from ladies,
no flower or jewelry bills, not the shadow of an assignation. The only
photograph upon his table is a photograph of Lady Hunterleys."

"Better not tell our friend Draconmeyer that," Selingman observed,
smiling to himself. "Well, well, you can do nothing but persevere,
Allen. We are not niggardly masters. If a man fails through no fault of
his own, well, we don't throw him into the street. Nothing parsimonious
about us. No need for you to sit about with a face as long as a fiddle
because you can't succeed all at once. We are the people to kick at it,
not you. Drink a little more wine, my friend. Give yourself a liqueur
after luncheon. Stick a cigar in your mouth and go and sit in the
sunshine. Make friends with some of the ladies. Remember, the sun will
still shine and the music play in fifty years' time, but not for you.
Come and see me when you want some more money."

"You are very kind, sir," the man replied. "I am going across to the
hotel now. Sir Henry has been about there most of the morning but he has
just gone in to Ciro's to lunch, so I shall have at least half-an-hour."

"Good luck to you!" Selingman exclaimed heartily. "Who knows but that
the big things may come, even this afternoon? Cheer up, and try and make
yourself believe that a letter may be lying on the table, a letter he
forgot to post, or one sent round from the bank since he left. I am
hopeful for you this afternoon, Allen. I believe you are going to do
well. Come up and see me afterwards, if you will. I am going to my hotel
to lie down for half-an-hour. I am not really tired but I have no friend
here to talk with or anything to do, and it is a wise economy of the
human frame. To-night, mademoiselle will have returned. Just now every
one has deserted me. I will rest until six o'clock. Au revoir, friend
Allen! Au revoir!"

Selingman climbed the hill and entered the hotel where he was staying.
He mounted to his room, took off his coat, at which he glanced
admiringly for a moment and then hung up behind the door. Finally he
pulled down the blinds and lay down to rest. Very soon he was asleep....

The drowsy afternoon wore on. Through the open windows came the sound of
carriages driven along the dusty way, the shouts of the coachmen to
their horses, the jingling of bells, the hooting of motor horns. A lime
tree, whose leaves were stirred by the languorous breeze, kept tapping
against the window. From a further distance came the faint, muffled
voices of promenaders, and the echo of the guns from the Tir du Pigeons.
But through it all, Selingman, lying on his back and snoring loudly,
slept. He was awakened at last by the feeling that some one had entered
the room. He sat up and blinked.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed.

A man in the weird disguise of a motor-cyclist was standing at the foot
of the bed. Selingman continued to blink. He was not wholly awake and
his visitor's appearance was unpleasant.

"Who the devil are you?" he enquired.

The visitor took off his disfiguring spectacles.

"Jean Coulois--behold!" was the soft reply.

Selingman raised himself and slid off the bed. It had seemed rather like
a dream. He was wide-awake now, however.

"What do you want?" he asked. "What are you here for?"

Jean Coulois said nothing. Then very slowly from the inside pocket of
his coat he drew a newspaper parcel. It was long and narrow, and in
places there was a stain upon the paper. Selingman stared at it and
stared back at Jean Coulois.

"What the mischief have you got there?" he demanded.

Coulois touched the parcel with his yellow forefinger. Selingman saw
then that the stains were of blood.

"Give me a towel," his visitor directed. "I do not want this upon my
clothes."

Selingman took a towel from the stand and threw it across the room.

"You mean," he asked, dropping his voice a little, "that it is
finished?"

"A quarter of an hour ago," Jean Coulois answered triumphantly. "He had
just come in from luncheon and was sitting at his writing-table. It was
cleverly done--wonderfully. It was all over in a moment--not a cry. You
came to the right place, indeed! And now I go to the country," Coulois
continued. "I have a motor-bicycle outside. I make my way up into the
hills to bury this little memento. There is a farmhouse up in the
mountains, a lonely spot enough, and a girl there who says what I tell
her. It may be as well to be able to say that I have been there for
dejeuner. These little things, monsieur--ah, well! we who understand
think of them. And since I am here," he added, holding out his hand--

Selingman nodded and took out his pocket-book. He counted out the notes
in silence and passed them over. The assassin dropped them into his
pocket.

"Au revoir, Monsieur le Gros!" he exclaimed, waving his hand. "We meet
to-night, I trust. I will show you a new dance--the Dance of Death, I
shall call it. I seem calm, but I am on fire with excitement. To-night I
shall dance as though quicksilver were in my feet. You must not miss it.
You must come, monsieur."

He closed the door behind him and swaggered off down the passage.
Selingman stood, for a moment, perfectly still. It was a strange thing,
but two big tears were in his eyes. Then he heaved a great sigh and
shook his head.

"It is part of the game," he said softly to himself, "all part of the
game."




XII

THE WRONG MAN


Selingman came out into the sunlit streets very much as a man who leaves
a dark and shrouded room. The shock of tragedy was still upon him. There
was a little choke in his throat as he mingled with the careless,
pleasure-loving throng, mostly wending their way now towards the Rooms
or the Terrace. As he crossed the square towards the Hotel de Paris, his
steps grew slower and slower. He looked at the building half-fearfully.
Beautifully dressed women, men of every nationality, were passing in and
out all the time. The commissionaire, with his little group of
satellites, stood sunning himself on the lowest step, a splendid,
complacent figure. There was no sign there of the horror that was hidden
within. Even while he looked up at the windows he felt a hand upon his
arm. Draconmeyer had caught him up and had fallen into step with him.

"Well, dear philosopher," he exclaimed, "why this subdued aspect? Has
your solitary day depressed you?"

Selingman turned slowly around. Draconmeyer's eyes beneath his
gold-rimmed spectacles were bright. He was carrying himself with less
than his usual stoop, he wore a red carnation in his buttonhole. He was
in spirits which for him were almost boisterous.

"Have you been in there?" Selingman asked, in a low tone.

Draconmeyer glanced at the hotel and back again at his companion.

"In where?" he demanded. "In the hotel? I left Lady Hunterleys there a
short time ago. I have been up to the bank since."

"You don't know yet, then?"

"Know what?"

There was a momentary silence. Draconmeyer suddenly gripped his
companion by the arm.

"Go on," he insisted. "Tell me?"

"It's all over!" Selingman exclaimed hoarsely. "Jean Coulois came to me
a quarter of an hour ago. It is finished. Damnation, Draconmeyer, let go
my arm!"

Draconmeyer withdrew his fingers. There was no longer any stoop about
him at all. He stood tall and straight, his lips parted, his face turned
upwards, upwards as though he would gaze over the roof of the hotel
before which they were standing, up to the skies.

"My God, Selingman!" he cried. "My God!"

The seconds passed. Then Draconmeyer suddenly took his companion by the
arm.

"Come," he said, "let us take that first seat in the gardens there. Let
us talk. Somehow or other, although I half counted upon this, I scarcely
believed.... Let us sit down. Do you think it is known yet?"

"Very likely not," Selingman answered, as they crossed the road and
entered the gardens. "Coulois found him in his rooms, seated at the
writing-table. It was all over, he declares, in ten seconds. He came to
me--with the knife. He was on his way to the mountains to hide it."

They found a seat under a drooping lime tree. They could still see the
hotel and the level stretch of road that led past the post-office and
the Club to Monaco. Draconmeyer sat with his eyes fixed upon the hotel,
through which streams of people were still passing. One of the
under-managers was welcoming the newcomers from a recently arrived
train.

"You are right," he murmured. "Nothing is known yet. Very likely
they will not know until the valet goes to lay out his clothes for
dinner.... Dead!"

Selingman, with one hand gripping the iron arm of the seat, watched his
companion's face with a sort of fascinated curiosity. There were beads
of perspiration upon Draconmeyer's forehead, but his expression, in its
way, was curious. There was no horror in his face, no fear, no shadow of
remorse. Some wholly different sentiment seemed to have transformed the
man. He was younger, more virile. He seemed as though he could scarcely
sit still.

"My friend," Selingman said, "I know that you are one of our children,
that you are one of those who have seen the truth and worked steadfastly
for the great cause with the heart of a patriot and the unswerving
fidelity of a strong man. But tell me the honest truth. There is
something else in your life--you have some other feeling about this man
Hunterleys' death?"

Draconmeyer removed his eyes from the front of the hotel and turned
slowly towards his companion. There was a transfiguring smile upon his
lips. Again he gave Selingman the impression of complete rejuvenation,
of an elderly man suddenly transformed into something young and
vigorous.

"There is something else, Selingman," he confessed. "This is the moment
when I dare speak of it. I will tell you first of any living person.
There is a woman over there whom I have set up as an idol, and before
whose shrine I have worshipped. There is a woman over there who has
turned the dull paths of my life into a flowery way. I am a patriot, and
I have worked for my country, Selingman, as you have worked. But I have
worked, also, that I might taste for once before I die the great
passion. Don't stare at me, man! Remember I am not like you. You can
laugh your way through the world, with a kiss here and a bow there, a
ribbon to your lips at night, thrown to the winds in the morning. I
haven't that sort of philosophy. Love doesn't come to me like that. It's
set in my heart amongst the great things. It's set there side by side
with the greatest of all."

"His wife!" Selingman muttered.

"Are you so colossal a fool as only to have guessed it at this moment?"
Draconmeyer continued contemptuously. "If he hadn't blundered across our
path here, if he hadn't been my political enemy, I should still some day
have taken him by the throat and killed him. You don't know what risks I
have been running," he went on, with a sudden hoarseness. "In her heart
she half loves him still. If he hadn't been a fool, a prejudiced,
over-conscientious, stiff-necked fool, I should have lost her within the
last twenty-four hours. I have had to fight and scheme as I have never
fought and schemed before, to keep them apart. I have had to pick my way
through shoals innumerable, hold myself down when I have been burning to
grip her by the wrists and tell her that all that a man could offer a
woman was hers. Selingman, this sounds like nonsense, I suppose."

"No," Selingman murmured, "not nonsense, but it doesn't sound like
Draconmeyer."

"Well, it's finished," Draconmeyer declared, with a great sigh of
content. "You know now. I enter upon the final stage. I had only one
fear. Jean Coulois has settled that for me. I wonder whether they know.
It seems peaceful enough. No! Look over there," he added, gripping his
companion's arm. "Peter, the concierge, is whispering with the others.
That is one of the managers there, out on the pavement, talking to
them."

Selingman pointed down the road towards Monaco.

"See!" he exclaimed. "There is a motor-car coming in a hurry. I fancy
that the alarm must have been given."

A grey, heavily-built car came along at a great pace and swung round in
front of the Hotel de Paris. The two men stood on the pavement and
watched. A tall, official-looking person, with black, upturned
moustache, in somber uniform and a peaked cap, descended.

"The Commissioner of Police," Selingman whispered, "and that is a doctor
who has just gone in. He has been found!"

They crossed the road to the hotel. The concierge removed his hat as
they turned to enter. To all appearances he was unchanged--fat, florid,
splendid. Draconmeyer stepped close to him.

"Has anything happened here, Peter?" he asked. "I saw the Commissioner
of Police arrive in a great hurry."

The man hesitated. It was obvious then that he was disturbed. He looked
to the right and to the left. Finally, with a sigh of resignation, he
seemed to make up his mind to tell the truth.

"It is the English gentleman, Sir Henry Hunterleys," he whispered. "He
has been found stabbed to death in his room."

"Dead?" Draconmeyer demanded, insistently.

"Stone dead, sir," the concierge replied. "He was stabbed by some one
who stole in through the bathroom--they say that he couldn't ever have
moved again. The Commissioner of Police is upstairs. The ambulance is
round at the back to take him off to the Mortuary."

Selingman suddenly seized the man by the arm. His eyes were fixed upon
the topmost step. Violet stood there, smiling down upon them. She was
wearing a black and white gown, and a black hat with white ospreys. It
was the hour of five o'clock tea and many people were passing in and
out. She came gracefully down the steps. The two men remained
speechless.

"I have been waiting for you, Mr. Draconmeyer," she remarked, smiling.

Draconmeyer remembered suddenly the packet of notes which he had been to
fetch from the bank. He tried to speak but only faltered. Selingman had
removed his hat but he, too, seemed incapable of coherent speech. She
looked at them both, astonished.

"Whatever is the matter with you both?" she exclaimed. "Who is coming
with me to the Club? I decided to come this way round to see if I could
change my luck. That underground passage depresses me."

Draconmeyer moved up a couple of steps. He was quite himself now, grave
but solicitous.

"Lady Hunterleys," he said, "I am sorry, but there has been a little
accident. I am afraid that your husband has been hurt. If you will come
back to your room for a minute I will tell you about it."

All the colour died slowly from her face. She swayed a little, but when
Draconmeyer would have supported her she pushed him away.

"An accident?" she muttered. "I must go and see for myself."

She turned and re-entered the hotel swiftly. Draconmeyer caught her up
in the hall.

"Lady Hunterleys," he begged earnestly, "please take my advice. I am
your friend, you know. I want you to go straight to your room. I will
come with you. I will explain to you then--"

"I am going to Henry," she interrupted, without even a glance towards
him. "I am going to my husband at once. I must see what has happened."

She rang the bell for the lift, which appeared almost immediately.
Draconmeyer stepped in with her.

"Lady Hunterleys," he persisted, "I beg of you to do as I ask. Let me
take you to your rooms. I will tell you all that has happened. Your
husband will not be able to see you or speak with you."

"I shall not get out," she declared, when the lift boy, in obedience to
Draconmeyer's imperative order, stopped at her floor. "If I may not go
on in the lift, I shall walk up the stairs. I am going to my husband."

"He will not recognise you," Draconmeyer warned her. "I am very sorry
indeed, Lady Hunterleys--I would spare you this shock if I could--but
you must be prepared for very serious things."

They had reached the next floor now. The boy opened the gate of the lift
and she stepped out. She looked pitifully at Draconmeyer.

"You aren't going to tell me that he is dead?" she moaned.

"I am afraid he is," Draconmeyer assented.

She staggered across the landing, pushing him away from her. There were
four or five people standing outside the door of Hunterleys' apartment.
She appealed to them.

"Let me go in at once," she ordered. "I am Lady Hunterleys."

"The door is locked," one of the men declared.

"Let me go in," she insisted.

She pushed them on one side and hammered at the door. They could hear
voices inside. In a moment it was opened. It was the Commissioner of the
Police who stood there--tall, severe, official.

"Madame?" he exclaimed.

"I am his wife!" she cried. "Let me in--let me in at once!"

She forced her way into the room. Something was lying on the bed,
covered with a sheet. She looked at it and shrieked.

"Madame," the Commissioner begged, "pray compose yourself. A tragedy has
happened in this room--but we are not sure. Can you be brave, madame?"

"I can," she answered. "Of what are you not sure?"

The Commissioner turned down the sheet a few inches. A man's face was
visible, a ghastly sight. She looked at it and shrieked hysterically.

"Is that your husband, madame?" the Commissioner asked quickly.

"Thank God, no!" she cried. "You are sure this is the man?" she went on,
her voice shaking with fierce excitement. "There is no one else--hurt?
No one else stabbed? This is the man they told me was my husband?"

"He was found there, sitting at your husband's table, madame," the
Commissioner of Police assured her. "There is no one else."

She suddenly began to cry.

"It isn't Henry!" she sobbed, groping her way from the room. "Take me
downstairs, please, some one."




XIII

TROUBLE BREWING


The maitre d'hotel had presented his bill. The little luncheon party was
almost over.

"So I take leave," Hunterleys remarked, as he sat down his empty liqueur
glass, "of one of my responsibilities in life."

"I think I'd like to remain a sort of half ward, please," Felicia
objected, "in case David doesn't treat me properly."

"If he doesn't," Hunterleys declared, "he will have me to answer to.
Seriously, I think you young people are very wise and very foolish and
very much to be envied. What does Sidney say about it?"

Felicia made a little grimace. She glanced around but the tables near
them were unoccupied.

"Sidney is much too engrossed in his mysterious work to concern himself
very much about anything," she replied. "Do you know that he has been
out all night two nights this week already, and he is making no end of
preparations for to-day?"

Hunterleys nodded.

"I know that he is very busy just now," he assented gravely. "I must
come up and talk to him this afternoon."

"We left him writing," Felicia said. "Of course, he declares that it is
for his beloved newspaper, but I am not sure. He scarcely ever goes out
in the daytime. What can he have to write about? David's work is
strenuous enough, and I have told him that if he turns war correspondent
again, I shall break it off."

"We all have our work to do in life," Hunterleys reminded her. "You have
to sing in _Aida_ to-night, and you have to do yourself justice for the
sake of a great many people. Your brother has his work to do, also.
Whatever the nature of it may be, he has taken it up and he must go
through with it. It would be of no use his worrying for fear that you
should forget your words or your notes to-night, and there is no purpose
in your fretting because there may be danger in what he has to do. I
promise you that so far as I can prevent it, he shall take no
unnecessary risks. Now, if you like, I will walk home with you young
people, if I sha'n't be terribly in the way. I know that Sidney wants to
see me."

They left the restaurant, a few minutes later, and strolled up towards
the town. Hunterleys paused outside a jeweler's shop.

"And now for the important business of the day!" he declared. "I must
buy you an engagement present, on behalf of myself and all your
guardians. Come in and help me choose, both of you. A girl who carries
her gloves in her hand to show her engagement ring, should have a better
bag to hang from that little finger."

"You really are the most perfect person that ever breathed!" she sighed.
"You know I don't deserve anything of the sort."

They paid their visit to the jeweler and afterwards drove up to the
villa in a little victoria. Sidney Roche was hard at work in his
shirt-sleeves. He greeted Hunterleys warmly.

"Glad you've come up!" he exclaimed. "The little girl's told you the
news, I suppose?"

"Rather!" Hunterleys replied. "I have been lunching with them on the
strength of it."

"And look!" Felicia cried, holding out the gold bag which hung from her
finger. "Look how I am being spoiled."

Her brother sighed.

"Awful nuisance for me," he grumbled, "having to live with an engaged
couple. You couldn't clear out for a little time," he suggested, "both
of you? I want to talk to Hunterleys."

"We'll go and sit in the garden," Felicia assented. "I suppose I ought
to rest. David shall read my score to me."

They passed out and Roche closed the door behind them carefully.

"Anything fresh?" Hunterleys asked.

"Nothing particular," was the somewhat guarded reply. "That fellow
Frenhofer has been up here."

"Frenhofer?" Hunterleys repeated, interrogatively.

"He is the only man I can rely upon at the Villa Mimosa," Roche
explained. "I am afraid to-night it's going to be rather a difficult
job."

"I always feared it would be," Hunterleys agreed.

"Frenhofer tells me," Roche continued, "that for some reason or other
their suspicions have been aroused up there. They are all on edge. You
know, the house is cram-full of men-servants and there are to be a dozen
of them on duty in the grounds. Two or three of these fellows are
nothing more or less than private detectives, and they all of them know
what they're about or Grex wouldn't have them."

Hunterleys looked grave.

"It sounds awkward," he admitted.

"The general idea of the plot," Roche went on, walking restlessly up and
down the room, "you and I have already solved, and by this time they
know it in London. But there are two things which I feel they may
discuss to-night, which are of vital importance. The first is the date,
the second is the terms of the offer to Douaille. Then, of course, more
important, perhaps, than either of these, is the matter of Douaille's
general attitude towards the scheme."

"So far," Hunterleys remarked reflectively, "we haven't the slightest
indication of what that may be. Douaille came pledged to nothing. He
may, after all, stand firm."

"For the honour of his country, let us hope so," Roche said solemnly.
"Yet I am sure of one thing. They are going to make him a wonderful
offer. He may find himself confronted with a problem which some of the
greatest statesmen in the world have had to face in their time--shall he
study the material benefit of his country, or shall he stand firm for
her honour?"

"It's a great ethical question," Hunterleys declared, "too great for us
to discuss now, Sidney. Tell me, do you really mean to go on with this
attempt of yours to-night?"

"I must," Roche replied. "Frenhofer wants me to give up the roof idea,
but there is nothing else worth trying. He brought a fresh plan of the
room with him. There it lies on the table. As you see, the apartment
where the meeting will take place is almost isolated from the rest of
the house. There is only one approach to it, by a corridor leading from
the hall. The east and west sides will be patrolled. On the south there
is a little terrace, but the approach to it is absolutely impossible.
There is a sheer drop of fifty feet on to the beach."

"You think they have no suspicion about the roof?" Hunterleys asked
doubtfully.

"Not yet. The pane of glass is cut out and my entrance to the house is
arranged for. Frenhofer will tamper with the electric lights in the
kitchen premises and I shall arrive in response to his telephonic
message, in the clothes of a working-man and with a bag of tools. Then
he smuggles me on to the spiral stairway which leads out on to the roof
where the flag-staff is. I can crawl the rest of the way to my place.
The trouble is that notwithstanding the ledge around, if it is a
perfectly clear night, just a fraction of my body, however flat I lie,
might be seen from the ground."

Hunterleys studied the plan for a moment and shook his head.

"It's a terrible risk, this, Roche," he said seriously.

"I know it," the other admitted, "but what am I to do? They keep sending
me cipher messages from home to spare no effort to send further news, as
you know very well, and two other fellows will be here the day after
to-morrow, to relieve me. I must do what I can. There's one thing,
Felicia's off my mind now. Briston's a good fellow and he'll look after
her."

"In the event of your capture--" Hunterleys began.

"The tools I shall take with me," Roche interrupted, "are common
housebreaker's tools. Every shred of clothing I shall be wearing will be
in keeping, the ordinary garments of an _ouvrier_ of the district. If I
am trapped, it will be as a burglar and not as a spy. Of course, if
Douaille opens the proceedings by declaring himself against the scheme,
I shall make myself scarce as quickly as I can."

"You were quite right when you said just now," Hunterleys observed,
"that Douaille will find himself in a difficult position. There is no
doubt but that he is an honest man. On the other hand, it is a political
axiom that the first duty of any statesman is to his own people. If they
can make Douaille believe that he is going to restore her lost provinces
to France without the shedding of a drop of French blood, simply at
England's expense, he will be confronted with a problem over which any
man might hesitate. He has had all day to think it over. What he may
decide is simply on the knees of the gods."

Roche sealed up the letter he had been writing, and handed it to
Hunterleys.

"Well," he said, "I have left everything in order. If there's any
mysterious disappearance from here, it will be the mysterious
disappearance of a newspaper correspondent, and nothing else."

"Good luck, then, old chap!" Hunterleys wished him. "If you pull through
this time, I think our job will be done. I'll tell them at headquarters
that you deserve a year's holiday."

Roche smiled a little queerly.

"Don't forget," he pointed out, "that it was you who scented out the
whole plot. I've simply done the Scotland Yard work. The worst of our
job is," he added, as he opened the door, "that we don't want holidays.
We are like drugged beings. The thing gets hold of us. I suppose if they
gave me a holiday I should spend it in St. Petersburg. That's where we
ought to send our best men just now. So long, Sir Henry."

They shook hands once more. Roche's face was set in grim lines. They
were both silent for a moment. It was the farewell of men whose eyes are
fixed upon the great things.

"Good luck to you!" Hunterleys repeated fervently, as he turned and
walked down the tiled way.




XIV

HUNTERLEYS SCENTS MURDER


The concierge of the Hotel de Paris was a man of great stature and
imposing appearance. Nevertheless, when Hunterleys crossed the road and
climbed the steps to the hotel, he seemed for a moment like a man
reduced to pulp. He absolutely forgot his usual dignified but courteous
greeting. With mouth a little open and knees which seemed to have
collapsed, he stared at this unexpected apparition as he came into sight
and stared at him as he entered the hotel. Hunterleys glanced behind
with a slight frown. The incident, inexplicable though it was, would
have passed at once from his memory, but that directly he entered the
hotel he was conscious of the very similar behaviour and attitude
towards him of the chief reception clerk. He paused on his way, a little
bewildered, and called the man to him. The clerk, however, was already
rushing towards the office with his coat-tails flying behind him.
Hunterleys crossed the floor and rang the bell for the lift. Directly he
stepped in, the lift man vacated his place, and with his eyes nearly
starting out of his head, seemed about to make a rush for his life.

"Come back here," Hunterleys ordered sternly. "Take me up to my room at
once."

The man returned unsteadily and with marked reluctance. He closed the
gate, touched the handle and the lift commenced to ascend.

"What's the matter with you all here?" Hunterleys demanded, irritably.
"Is there anything wrong with my appearance? Has anything happened?"

The man made a gesture but said absolutely nothing. The lift had
stopped. He pushed open the door.

"Monsieur's floor," he faltered.

Hunterleys stepped out and made his way towards his room. Arrived there,
he was brought to a sudden standstill. A gendarme was stationed outside.

"What the mischief are you doing here?" Hunterleys demanded.

The man saluted.

"By orders of the Director of Police, monsieur."

"But that is my room," Hunterleys protested. "I wish to enter."

"No one is permitted to enter, monsieur," the man replied.

Hunterleys stared blankly at the gendarme.

"Can't you tell me at least what has happened?" he persisted. "I am Sir
Henry Hunterleys. That is my apartment. Why do I find it locked against
me?"

"By order of the Director of the Police, monsieur," was the parrot-like
reply.

Hunterleys turned away impatiently. At that moment the reception clerk
who downstairs had fled at his approach, returned, bringing with him the
manager of the hotel. Hunterleys welcomed the latter with an air of
relief.

"Monsieur Picard," he exclaimed, "what on earth is the meaning of this?
Why do I find my room closed and this gendarme outside?"

Monsieur Picard was a tall man, black-bearded, immaculate in appearance
and deportment, with manners and voice of velvet. Yet he, too, had lost
his wonderful imperturbability. He waved away the floor waiter, who had
drawn near. His manner was almost agitated.

"Monsieur Sir Henry," he explained, "an affair the most regrettable has
happened in your room. I have allotted to you another apartment upon the
same floor. Your things have been removed there. If you will come with
me I will show it to you. It is an apartment better by far than the one
you have been occupying, and the price is the same."

"But what on earth has happened in my room?" Hunterleys demanded.

"Monsieur," the hotel manager replied, "some poor demented creature who
has doubtless lost his all, in your absence found his way there and
committed suicide."

"Found his way into my room?" Hunterleys repeated. "But I locked the
door before I went out. I have the key in my pocket."

"He entered possibly through the bathroom," the manager went on,
soothingly. "I am deeply grieved that monsieur should be inconvenienced
in any way. This is the apartment I have reserved for monsieur," he
added, throwing open the door of a room at the end of the corridor. "It
is more spacious and in every way more desirable. Monsieur's clothes are
already being put away."

Hunterleys glanced around the apartment. It was certainly of a far
better type than the one he had been occupying, and two of the floor
valets were already busy with his clothes.

"Monsieur will be well satisfied here, I am sure," the hotel manager
continued. "May I be permitted to offer my felicitations and to assure
you of my immense relief. There was a rumour--the affair occurring in
monsieur's apartment--that the unfortunate man was yourself, Sir Henry."

Hunterleys was thoughtful for a moment. He began to understand the
sensation which his appearance had caused. Other ideas, too, were
crowding into his brain.

"Look here, Monsieur Picard," he said, "of course, I have no objection
to the change of rooms--that's all right--but I should like to know a
little more about the man who you say committed suicide in my apartment.
I should like to see him."

Monsieur Picard shook his head.

"It would be a very difficult matter, that, monsieur," he declared. "The
laws of Monaco are stringent in such affairs."

"That is all very well," Hunterleys protested, "but I cannot understand
what he was doing in my apartment. Can't I go in just for a moment?"

"Impossible, monsieur! Without the permission of the Commissioner of
Police no one can enter that room."

"Then I should like," Hunterleys persisted, "to see the Commissioner of
Police."

Monsieur Picard bowed.

"Monsieur the Commissioner is on the premises, without a doubt. I will
instruct him of Monsieur Sir Henry's desire."

"I shall be glad if you will do so at once," Hunterleys said firmly. "I
will wait for him here."

The manager made his escape and his relief was obvious. Hunterleys sat
on the edge of the bed.

"Do you know anything about this affair?" he asked the nearer of the two
valets.

The man shook his head.

"Nothing at all, monsieur," he answered, without pausing from his
labours.

"How did the fellow get into my room?"

"One knows nothing," the other man muttered.

Hunterleys watched them for a few minutes at their labours.

"A nice, intelligent couple of fellows you are," he remarked pleasantly.
"Come, here's a louis each. Now can't you tell me something about the
affair?"

They came forward. Both looked longingly at the coins.

"Monsieur," the one he had first addressed regretted, "there is indeed
nothing to be known. At this hotel the wages are good. It is the finest
situation a man may gain in Monte Carlo or elsewhere, but if anything
like this happens, there is to be silence. One dares not break the
rule."

Hunterleys shrugged his shoulders.

"All right," he said. "I shall find out what I want to know, in time."

The men returned unwillingly to their tasks. In a moment or two there
was a knock at the door. The Commissioner of Police entered, accompanied
by the hotel manager, who at once introduced him.

"The Commissioner of Police is here, Sir Henry," he announced. "He will
speak with you immediately."

The official saluted.

"Monsieur desires some information?"

"I do," Hunterleys admitted. "I am told that a man has committed suicide
in my room, and I have heard no plausible explanation as to how he got
there. I want to see him. It is possible that I may recognise him."

"The fellow is already identified," the Director of Police declared. "I
can satisfy monsieur's curiosity. He was connected with a firm of
English tailors here, who sought business from the gentlemen in the
hotel. He had accordingly sometimes the entree to their apartments. The
fellow is reported to have saved a little money and to have visited the
tables. He lost everything. He came this morning about his business as
usual, but, overcome by despair, stabbed himself, most regrettably in
the apartments of monsieur."

"Since you know all about him, perhaps you can tell me his name?"
Hunterleys asked.

"James Allen. Monsieur may recall him to his memory. He was tall and of
pale complexion, respectable-looking, but a man of discontented
appearance. The intention had probably been in his mind for some time."

"Is there any objection to my seeing the body?" Hunterleys enquired.

The official shrugged his shoulders.

"But, monsieur, all is finished with the poor fellow. The doctor has
given his certificate. He is to be removed at once. He will be buried at
nightfall."

"A very admirable arrangement, without a doubt," Hunterleys observed,
"and yet, I should like, as I remarked before, to see the body. You know
who I am--Sir Henry Hunterleys. I had a message from your department a
day or two ago which I thought a little unfair."

The Commissioner sighed. He ignored altogether the conclusion of
Hunterleys' sentence.

"It is against the rules, monsieur," he regretted.

"Then to whom shall I apply?" Hunterleys asked, "because I may as well
tell you at once that I am going to insist upon my request being
granted. I will tell you frankly my reason. It is not a matter of
curiosity at all. I should like to feel assured of the fact that this
man Allen really committed suicide."

"But he is dead, monsieur," the Commissioner protested.

"Doubtless," Hunterleys agreed, "but there is also the chance that he
was murdered, isn't there?"

"Murdered!"

Monsieur Picard held up his hands in horror. The Commissioner of Police
smiled in derision.

"But, monsieur," the latter pointed out, "who would take the trouble to
murder a poverty-stricken tailor's assistant!"

"And in my hotel, too!" Monsieur Picard intervened.

"The thing is impossible," the Commissioner declared.

"Beyond which it is ridiculous!" Monsieur Picard added.

Hunterleys sat quite silent for a moment.

"Monsieur the Commissioner," he said presently, "and Monsieur Picard, I
recognise your point of view. Believe me that I appreciate it and that I
am willing, to a certain extent, to acquiesce in it. At the same time,
there are considerations in this matter which I cannot ignore. I do not
wish to create any disturbance or to make any statements likely to
militate against the popularity of your wonderful hotel, Monsieur
Picard. Nevertheless, for personal reasons only, notwithstanding the
verdict of your doctor, I should like for one moment to examine the
body."

The Commissioner of Police was thoughtful for a moment.

"It shall be as monsieur desires," he consented gravely, "bearing in
mind what monsieur has said," he added with emphasis.

The three men left the room and passed down the corridor. The gendarme
in front of the closed door stood on one side. The Commissioner produced
a key. They all three entered the room and Monsieur Picard closed the
door behind them. Underneath a sheet upon the bed was stretched the
figure of a man. Hunterleys stepped up to it, turned down the sheet and
examined the prostrate figure. Then he replaced the covering reverently.

"Yes," he said, "that is the man who has called upon me for orders from
the English tailors. His name, I believe, was, as you say, Allen. But
can you tell me, Monsieur the Commissioner, how it was possible for a
man to stab himself from the shoulder downwards through the heart?"

The Official extended his hands.

"Monsieur," he declared, "it is not for us. The doctor has given his
certificate."

Hunterleys smiled a little grimly.

"I have always understood," he observed, "that things were managed like
this. You may have confidence in me, Monsieur the Commissioner, and you,
Monsieur Picard. I shall not tell the world what I suspect. But for your
private information I will tell you that this man was probably murdered
by an assassin who sought my life. You observe that there is a certain
resemblance."

The hotel proprietor turned pale.

"Murdered!" he exclaimed. "Impossible! A murder here--unheard of!"

The Commissioner dismissed the whole thing airily with a wave of his
hand.

"The doctor has signed the certificate," he repeated.

"And I," Hunterleys added, as he led the way out of the room, "am more
than satisfied--I am grateful. So there is nothing more to be said."




XV

DRACONMEYER IS DESPERATE


Draconmeyer stood before the window of his room, looking out over the
Mediterranean. There was no finer view to be obtained from any suite in
the hotel, and Monte Carlo had revelled all that day in the golden,
transfiguring sunshine. Yet he looked as a blind man. His eyes saw
nothing of the blue sea or the brown-sailed fishing boats, nor did he
once glance towards the picturesque harbour. He saw only his own future,
the shattered pieces of his carefully-thought-out scheme. The first fury
had passed. His brain was working now. In her room below, Lady
Hunterleys was lying on the couch, half hysterical. Three times she had
sent for her husband. If he should return at that moment, Draconmeyer
knew that the game was up. There would be no bandying words between
them, no involved explanations, no possibility of any further
misunderstanding. All his little tissue of lies and misrepresentations
would crumble hopelessly to pieces. The one feeling in her heart would
be thankfulness. She would open her arms. He saw the end with fatal,
unerring truthfulness.

His servant returned. Draconmeyer waited eagerly for his message.

"Lady Hunterleys is lying down, sir," the man announced. "She is very
much upset and begs you to excuse her."

Draconmeyer waved the man away and walked up and down the apartment, his
hands behind his back, his lips hard-set. He was face to face with a
crisis which baffled him completely, and yet which he felt to be wholly
unworthy of his powers. His brain had never been keener, his sense of
power more inspiring. Yet he had never felt more impotent. It was
woman's hysteria against which he had to fight. The ordinary weapons
were useless. He realised quite well her condition and the dangers
resulting from it. The heart of the woman was once more beating to its
own natural tune. If Hunterleys should present himself within the next
few minutes, not all his ingenuity nor the power of his millions could
save the situation.

Plans shaped themselves almost automatically in his mind. He passed from
his own apartments, through a connecting door into a large and
beautifully-furnished salon. A woman with grey hair and white face was
lying on a couch by the window. She turned her head as he entered and
looked at him questioningly. Her face was fragile and her features were
sharpened by suffering. She looked at her husband almost as a cowed but
still affectionate animal might look towards a stern master.

"Do you feel well enough to walk as far as Lady Hunterleys' apartment
with the aid of my arm?" he asked.

"Of course," she replied. "Does Violet want me?"

"She is still feeling the shock," Draconmeyer said. "I think that she is
inclined to be hysterical. It would do her good to have you talk with
her."

The nurse, who had been sitting by her side, assisted her patient to
rise. She leaned on her husband's arm. In her other hand she carried a
black ebony walking-stick. They traversed the corridor, knocked at the
door of Lady Hunterleys' apartment, and in response to a somewhat
hesitating invitation, entered. Violet was lying upon the sofa. She
looked up eagerly at their coming.

"Linda!" she exclaimed. "How dear of you! I thought that it might have
been Henry," she added, as though to explain the disappointment in her
tone.

Draconmeyer turned away to hide his expression.

"Talk to her as lightly as possible," he whispered to his wife, "but
don't leave her alone. I will come back for you in ten minutes."

He left the two women together and descended into the hall. He found
several of the reception clerks whispering together. The concierge had
only just recovered himself, but the place was beginning to wear its
normal aspect. He whispered an enquiry at the desk. Sir Henry Hunterleys
had just come in and had gone upstairs, he was told. His new room was
number 148.

"There was a note from his wife," Draconmeyer said, trying hard to
control his voice. "Has he had it?"

"It is here still, sir," the clerk replied. "I tried to catch Sir Henry
as he passed through, but he was too quick for me. To tell you the
truth," he went on, "there has been a rumour through the hotel that it
was Sir Henry himself who had been found dead in his room, and seeing
him come in was rather a shock for all of us."

"Naturally," Draconmeyer agreed. "If you will give me the note I will
take it up to him."

The clerk handed it over without hesitation. Draconmeyer returned
immediately to his own apartments and torn open the envelope. There were
only a few words scrawled across the half-sheet of notepaper:

     Henry, come to me, dear, at once. I have had such a shock. I want
     to see you.

     Vi.

He tore the note viciously into small pieces. Then he went back to Lady
Hunterleys' apartments. She was sitting up now in an easy-chair. Once
more, at the sound of the knock, she looked towards the door eagerly.
Her face fell when Draconmeyer entered.

"Have you heard anything about Henry?" she asked anxiously.

"He came back a few minutes ago," Draconmeyer replied, "and has gone out
again."

"Gone out again?"

Draconmeyer nodded.

"I think that he has gone round to the Club. He is a man of splendid
nerve, your husband. He seemed to treat the whole affair as an excellent
joke."

"A joke!" she repeated blankly.

"This sort of thing happens so often in Monte Carlo," he observed, in a
matter-of-fact tone. "The hotel people seem all to look upon it as in
the day's work."

"I wonder if Henry had my note?" she faltered.

"He was reading one in the hall when I saw him," Draconmeyer told her.
"That would be yours, I should think. He left a message at the desk
which was doubtless meant for you. He has gone on to the Sporting Club
for an hour and will probably be back in time to change for dinner."

Violet sat quite still for several moments. Something seemed to die
slowly out of her face. Presently she rose to her feet.

"I suppose," she said, "that I am very foolish to allow myself to be
upset like this."

"It is quite natural," Draconmeyer assured her soothingly. "What you
should try to do is to forget the whole circumstance. You sit here
brooding about it until it becomes a tragedy. Let us go down to the Club
together. We shall probably see your husband there."

She hesitated. She seemed still perplexed.

"I wonder," she murmured, "could I send another message to him? Perhaps
he didn't quite understand."

"Much better come along to the Club," Draconmeyer advised,
good-humouredly. "You can be there yourself before a message could reach
him."

"Very well," she assented. "I will be ready in ten minutes...."

Draconmeyer took his wife back to her room.

"Did I do as you wished, dear?" she asked him anxiously.

"Absolutely," he replied.

He helped her back to her couch and stooped and kissed her. She leaned
back wearily. It was obvious that she had found the exertion of moving
even so far exhausting. Then he returned to his own apartments. Rapidly
he unlocked his dispatch box and took out one or two notes from Violet.
They were all of no importance--answers to invitations, or appointments.
He spread them out, took a sheet of paper and a broad pen. Without
hesitation he wrote:

     Congratulations on your escape, but why do you run such risks! I
     wish you would go back to England.

     VIOLET.

He held the sheet of notepaper a little away from him and looked at it
critically. The imitation was excellent. He thrust the few lines into an
envelope, addressed them to Hunterleys and descended to the hall. He
left the note at the office.

"Send this up to Sir Henry, will you?" he instructed. "Let him have it
as quickly as possible."

Once more he crossed the hall and waited close to the lift by which she
would descend. All the time he kept on glancing nervously around. Things
were going his way, but the great danger remained--if they should meet
first by chance in the corridor, or in the lift! Hunterleys might think
it his duty to go at once to his wife's apartment in case she had heard
the rumour of his death. The minutes dragged by. He had climbed the
great ladder slowly. More than once he had felt it sway beneath his
feet. Yet to him those moments seemed almost the longest of his life.
Then at last she came. She was looking very pale, but to his relief he
saw that she was dressed for the Club. She was wearing a grey dress and
black hat. He remembered with a pang of fury that grey was her husband's
favourite colour.

"I suppose there is no doubt that Henry is at the Club?" she asked,
looking eagerly around the hall.

"Not the slightest," he assured her. "We can have some tea there and we
are certain to come across him somewhere."

She made no further difficulty. As they turned into the long passage he
gave a sigh of relief. Every step they took meant safety. He talked to
her as lightly as possible, ignoring the fact that she scarcely replied
to him. They mounted the stairs and entered the Club. She looked
anxiously up and down the crowded rooms.

"I shall stroll about and look for Henry," she announced.

"Very well," he agreed. "I will go over to your place and see how the
numbers are going."

He stood by the roulette table, but he watched her covertly. She passed
through the baccarat room, came out again and walked the whole length of
the larger apartment. She even looked into the restaurant beyond. Then
she came slowly back to where Draconmeyer was standing. She seemed
tired. She scarcely even glanced at the table.

"Lady Hunterleys," he exclaimed impressively, "this is positively
wicked! Your twenty-nine has turned up twice within the last few
minutes. Do sit down and try your luck and I will go and see if I can
find your husband."

He pushed a handful of plaques and a bundle of notes into her hand. At
that moment the croupier's voice was heard.

_"Quatorze rouge, pair et manque."_

"Another of my numbers!" she murmured, with a faint show of interest. "I
don't think I want to play, though."

"Try just a few coups," he begged. "You see, there is a chair here. You
may not have a chance again for hours."

He was using all his will power. Somehow or other, she found herself
seated in front of the table. The sight of the pile of plaques and the
roll of notes was inspiring. She leaned across and with trembling
fingers backed number fourteen _en plein_, with all the _carres_ and
_chevaux_. She was playing the game at which she had lost so
persistently. He walked slowly away. Every now and then from a distance
he watched her. She was winning and losing alternately, but she had
settled down now in earnest. He breathed a great sigh of relief and took
a seat upon a divan, whence he could see if she moved. Richard Lane, who
had been standing at the other side of the table, crossed the room and
came over to him.

"Say, do you know where Sir Henry is?" he enquired.

Draconmeyer shook his head.

"I have scarcely seen him all day."

"I think I'll go round to the hotel and look him up," Lane decided
carelessly. "I'm fed up with this--"

He stopped short. He was no longer an exceedingly bored and
discontented-looking young man. Draconmeyer glanced at him curiously. He
felt a thrill of sympathy. This stolid young man, then, was capable of
feeling something of the same emotion as was tearing at his own
heart-strings. Lane was gazing with transfigured face towards the open
doorway.




XVI

EXTRAORDINARY LOVE-MAKING


Fedora sauntered slowly around the rooms, leaning over and staking a
gold plaque here and there. She was dressed as usual in white, with an
ermine turban hat and stole and an enormous muff. Her hair seemed more
golden than ever beneath its snow-white setting, and her complexion more
dazzling. She seemed utterly unconscious of the admiration which her
appearance evoked, and she passed Lane without apparently observing him.
A moment afterwards, however, he moved to her side and addressed her.

"Quite a lucky coup of yours, that last, Miss Grex. Are you used to
winning _en plein_ like that?"

She turned her head and looked at him. Her eyebrows were ever so
slightly uplifted. Her expression was chilling. He remained, however,
absolutely unconscious of any impending trouble.

"I was sorry not to find you at home this morning," he continued. "I
brought my little racing car round for you to see. I thought you might
have liked to try her."

"How absurd you are!" she murmured. "You must know perfectly well that
it would have been quite impossible for me to come out with you alone."

"But why?"

She sighed.

"You are quite hopeless, or you pretend to be!"

"If I am," he replied, "it is because you won't explain things to me
properly. The tables are much too crowded to play comfortably. Won't you
come and sit down for a few minutes?"

She hesitated. Lane watched her anxiously. He felt, somehow, that a
great deal depended upon her reply. Presently, with the slightest
possible shrug of the shoulders, she turned around and suffered him to
walk by her side to the little antechamber which divided the gambling
rooms from the restaurant.

"Very well," she decided, "I suppose, after all, one must remember that
you did save us from a great deal of inconvenience the other night. I
will talk to you for a few minutes."

He found her an easy-chair and he sat by her side.

"This is bully," he declared.

"Is what?" she asked, once more raising her eyebrows.

"American slang," he explained penitently. "I am sorry. I meant that it
was very pleasant to be here alone with you for a few minutes."

"You may not find it so, after all," she said severely. "I feel that I
have a duty to perform."

"Well, don't let's bother about that yet, if it means a lecture," he
begged. "You shall tell me how much better the young women of your
country behave than the young women of mine."

"Thank you," she replied, "I am never interested in the doings of a
democracy. Your country makes no appeal to me at all."

"Come," he protested, "that's a little too bad. Why, Russia may be a
democracy some day, you know. You very nearly had a republic foisted
upon you after the Japanese war."

"You are quite mistaken," she assured him. "Russia would never tolerate
a republic."

"Russia will some day have to do like many other countries," he answered
firmly,--"obey the will of the people."

"Russia has nothing in common with other countries," she asserted.
"There was never a nation yet in which the aristocracy was so powerful."

"It's only a matter of time," he declared, nonchalantly.

She shrugged her shoulders.

"You represent ideas of which I do not approve," she told him.

"I don't care a fig about any ideas," he replied. "I don't care much
about anything in the world except you."

She turned her head slowly and looked at him. Its angle was
supercilious, her tone frigid.

"That sort of a speech may pass for polite conversation in your country,
Mr. Lane. We do not understand it in mine."

"Don't your men ever tell your women that they love them?" he asked
bluntly.

"If they are of the same order," she said, "if the thing is at all
possible, it may sometimes be done. Marriage, however, is more a matter
of alliance with us. Our servants, I believe, are quite promiscuous in
their love-making."

He was silent for a moment. She may, perhaps, have felt some
compunction. She spoke to him a little more kindly.

"We cannot help the ideas of the country in which we are brought up, you
know, Mr. Lane."

"Of course not," he agreed. "I understand that perfectly. I was just
thinking, though, what a lot I shall have to teach you."

She was momentarily aghast. She recovered herself quickly, however.

"Are all the men of your nation so self-confident?"

"We have to be," he told her. "It's the only way we can get what we
want."

"And do you always succeed in getting what you want?"

"Always!"

"Then unless you wish to be an exception," she advised, "let me beg you
not to try for anything beyond your reach."

"There is nothing," he declared firmly, "beyond my reach. You are trying
to discourage me. It isn't any use. I am not a prince or a duke or
anything like that, although my ancestors were honest enough, I believe.
I haven't any trappings of that sort to offer you. If you are as
sensible as I think you are, you won't mind that when you come to think
it over. The only thing I am ashamed of is my money, because I didn't
earn it for myself. You can live in palaces still, if you want to, and
if you want to be a queen I'll ferret out a kingdom somewhere and buy
it, but I am afraid you'll have to be Mrs. Lane behind it all, you
know."

"You really are the most intolerable person," she exclaimed, biting her
lip. "How can I get these absurd ideas out of your mind?"

"By telling me honestly, looking in my eyes all the time, that you could
never care for me a little bit, however devoted I was," he answered
promptly. "You won't be able to do it. I've only one belief in life
about these things, and that is that when any one cares for a girl as I
care for you, it's absolutely impossible for her to be wholly
indifferent. It isn't much to start with, I know, but the rest will
come. Be honest with me. Is there any one of the men of your country
whom you have met, whom you want to marry?"

She frowned slightly. She found herself, at that moment, comparing him
with certain young men of her acquaintance. She was astonished to
realise that the comparison was all in his favour. It was for her an
extraordinary moment. She had indeed been brought up in palaces and the
men whom she had known had been reckoned the salt of the earth. Yet, at
that crisis, she was most profoundly conscious that not all the glamour
of those high-sounding names, the picturesque interest of those gorgeous
uniforms, nor the men themselves, magnificent in their way, were able to
make the slightest appeal to her. She remembered some of her own bitter
words when an alliance with one of them had been suggested to her. It
was she, then, who had been the first to ignore the divine heritage of
birth, who had spoken of their drinking habits, pointed to their life of
idle luxury and worse than luxury. The man who was at the present moment
her suitor forced himself upon her recollection. She knew quite well
that he represented a type. They were of the nobility, and they seemed
to her in that one poignant but unwelcome moment, hatefully degenerate,
men no self-respecting girl could ever think of. Family influence, stern
parental words, the call of her order, had half crushed these thoughts.
They came back now, however, with persistent force.

"You see," Richard Lane went on, "it mayn't be much that I have to offer
you, but in your heart I know you feel what it means to be offered the
love of a man who doesn't want you just because you are of his order, or
because you are the daughter of a Personage, or for any other reason
than because he cares for you as he has cared for no other woman on
earth, and because, without knowing it, he has waited for you."

She moved restlessly in her chair. Their conversation was not going in
the least along the lines which she had intended. She suddenly
remembered her own disquiet of the day before, her curious longing to
steal off on some excuse to-day. A week ago she would have been content
to have dawdled away the afternoon in the grounds of the villa.
Something different had come. From the moment she had entered the rooms,
although she had never acknowledged it, she had been conscious,
pleasurably conscious of his presence. She was suddenly uneasy.

"I am afraid," she murmured, "that you are quite hopeless."

"If you mean that I am without hope, you are wrong," he answered
sturdily. "From the moment I met you I have had but one thought, and
until the last day of my life I shall have but one thought, and that
thought is of you. There may be no end of difficulties, but I come of an
obstinate race. I have patience as well as other things."

She was avoiding looking at him now. She looked instead at her clasped
hands.

"I wish I could make you understand," she said, in a low tone, "how
impossible all this is. In England and America I know that it is
different. There, marriages of a certain sort are freely made between
different classes. But in Russia these things are not thought of.
Supposing that all you said were true. Supposing, even, that I had the
slightest disposition to listen to you. Do you realise that there isn't
one of my family who wouldn't cry out in horror at the thought of my
marrying--forgive me--marrying a commoner of your rank in life?"

"They can cry themselves hoarse, as they'll have to some day," he
replied cheerfully. "As for you, Miss Fedora--you don't mind my calling
you Miss Fedora, do you?--you'll be glad some day that you were born at
the beginning of a new era. You may be a pioneer in the new ways, but
you may take my word for it that you won't be the last. Please have
courage. Please try and be yourself, won't you?"

"But how do you know what I am?" she protested. "Or even what I am like?
We have spoken only a few words. Nothing has passed between us which
could possibly have inspired you with such feelings as you speak of,"
she added, colouring slightly. "It is a fancy of yours, quite too absurd
a fancy. Now that I find myself discussing it with you as though,
indeed, we were talking of it seriously, I am inclined to laugh. You are
just a very foolish young man, Mr. Lane."

He shook his head.

"Look here," he said, "I am very good at meaning things, but it's
awfully hard for me to put my thoughts into words. I can't explain how
it's all come about. I don't know why, amongst all the girls I've seen
in my own country, or England, or Paris, or anywhere, there hasn't been
one who could bring me the things which you bring, who could fill my
mind with the thoughts you fill it with, who could make my days stand
still and start again, who could upset the whole machinery of my life so
that when you come I want to dance with happiness, and when you go the
day is over with me. There is no chance of my being able to explain this
to you, because other fellows, much cleverer than I, have been in the
same box, and they've had to come to the conclusion, too, that there
isn't any explanation. I have accepted it. I want you to. I love you,
Fedora, and I will be faithful to you all my life. You shall live where
you choose and how you choose, but you must be my wife. There isn't any
way out of it for either of us."

She sat quite still for several moments. They were a little behind the
curtain and it chanced that there was no one in their immediate
vicinity. She felt her fingers suddenly gripped. They were released
again almost at once, but a queer sensation of something overmastering
seemed to creep through her whole being at the touch of his hand. She
rose to her feet.

"I am going away," she declared.

"I haven't offended you?" he begged. "Please sit down. We haven't half
talked over things yet."

"We have talked too much," she answered. "I don't know really what has
come over me that I have let you--that I listen to you--"

"It is because you feel the truth of what I say," he insisted. "Don't
get up, Fedora. Don't go away, dear. Let us have at least these few
minutes together. I'll do exactly as you tell me. I'll come to your
father or I'll carry you off. I have a sister here. She'll be your
friend--"

"Don't!" the girl stopped him. "Please don't!"

She sat down in her chair again. Her fingers were twisted together, her
slim form was tense with stifled emotions.

"Have I been a brute?" he asked softly. "You must forgive me, Fedora. I
am not much used to girls and I am sort of carried away myself, only I
want you to believe that there's the real thing in my heart. I'll make
you just as happy as a woman can be. Don't shake your head, dear. I want
you to trust me and believe in me."

"I think you're a most extraordinary person," she said at last. "Do you
know, I'm beginning to be really afraid of you."

"You're not," he insisted. "You're afraid of yourself. You're afraid
because you see the downfall of the old ideas. You're afraid because you
know that you're going to be a renegade. You can see nothing but trouble
ahead just now. I'll take you right away from that."

There was the rustle of skirts, a soft little laugh. Richard rose to his
feet promptly. He had never been so pleased in all his life to welcome
his sister.

"Flossie," he exclaimed, "I'm ever so glad you came along! I want to
present Miss Grex to you. This is my sister, Miss Fedora--Lady
Weybourne. I was just going to ask Miss Grex to have some tea with me,"
he went on, "but I am not sure that she would have considered it proper.
Do come along and be chaperone."

Lady Weybourne laughed.

"I shall be delighted," she declared. "I have seen you here once or
twice before, haven't I, Miss Grex, and some one told me that you were
Russian. I suppose you are not in the least used to the free and easy
ways of us Westerners, but you'll come and have some tea with us, won't
you?"

The girl hesitated. Fate was too strong for her.

"I shall be very pleased," she agreed.

They found a window table and Lane ordered tea. Fedora was inclined to
be silent at first, but Lady Weybourne was quite content to chatter. By
degrees Fedora, too, came back to earth and they had a very gay little
tea-party. At the end of it they all strolled back into the rooms
together. Fedora glanced at the watch upon her wrist and held out her
hand to Lady Weybourne.

"I am sorry," she said, "but I must hurry away now. It is very kind of
you to ask me to come and see you, Lady Weybourne. I shall be charmed."

Richard ignored her fingers.

"I am going to see you down to your car, if I may," he begged.

They left the room together. She looked at him as they descended the
stairs, almost tremulously.

"This doesn't mean, you know," she said, "that I--that I agree to all
you have been saying."

"It needn't mean anything at all, dear," he replied. "This is only the
beginning. I don't expect you to realise all that I have realised quite
so quickly, but I do want you to keep it in your mind that this thing
has come and that it can't be got rid of. I won't do anything foolish.
If it is necessary I will wait, but I am your lover now, as I always
must be."

He handed her into the car, the footman, in his long white livery,
standing somberly on one side. As they drove off she gave him her
fingers, and he walked back up the steps with the smile upon his lips
that comes to a man only once or twice in his lifetime.




XVII

PLAYING FOR HIGH STAKES


Violet glanced at her watch with an exclamation of dismayed annoyance.
She leaned appealingly towards the croupier.

"But one coup more, monsieur," she pleaded. "Indeed your clock is fast."

The croupier shook his head. He was a man of gallantry so far as his
profession permitted, and he was a great admirer of the beautiful
Englishwoman, but the rules of the Club were strict.

"Madame," he pointed out, "it is already five minutes past eight. It is
absolutely prohibited that we start another coup after eight o'clock. If
madame will return at ten o'clock, the good fortune will without doubt
be hers."

She looked up at Draconmeyer, who was standing at her elbow.

"Did you ever know anything more hatefully provoking!" she complained.
"For two hours the luck has been dead against me. But for a few of my
_carres_ turning up, I don't know what would have happened. And now at
last my numbers arrive. I win _en plein_ and with all the _carres_ and
_chevaux_. This time it was twenty-seven. I win two _carres_ and I move
to twenty, and he will not go on."

"It is the rule," Draconmeyer reminded her. "It is bad fortune, though.
I have been watching the run of the table. Things have been coming more
your way all the time. I think that the end of your ill-luck has
arrived. Tell me, are you hungry?"

"Not in the least," she answered pettishly. "I hate the very thought of
dinner."

"Then why do we not go on to the Casino?" Draconmeyer suggested. "We can
have a sandwich and a glass of wine there, and you can continue your
vein."

She rose to her feet with alacrity. Her face was beaming.

"My friend," she exclaimed, "you are inspired! It is a brilliant idea. I
know that it will bring me fortune. To the Cercle Prive, by all means. I
am so glad that you are one of those men who are not dependent upon
dinner. But what about Linda?"

"She is not expecting me, as it happens," Draconmeyer lied smoothly. "I
told her that I might be dining at the Villa Mimosa. I have to be there
later on."

Violet gathered up her money, stuffed it into her gold bag and hurried
off for her cloak. She reappeared in a few moments and smiled very
graciously at Draconmeyer.

"It is quite a wonderful idea of yours, this," she declared. "I am
looking forward immensely to my next few coups. I feel in a winning
vein. Very soon," she added, as they stepped out on to the pavement and
she gathered up her skirts, "very soon I am quite sure that I shall be
asking you for my cheques back again."

He laughed, as though she had been a child speaking of playthings.

"I am not sure that I shall wish you luck," he said. "I think that I
like to feel that you are a little--just a very little in my debt. Do
you think that I should be a severe creditor?"

Something in his voice disturbed her vaguely, but she brushed the
thought away. Of course he admired her, but then every woman must have
admirers. It only remained for her to be clever enough to keep him at
arm's length. She had no fear for herself.

"I haven't thought about the matter at all," she answered carelessly,
"but to me all creditors would be the same, whether they were kind or
unkind. I hate the feeling of owing anything."

"It is a question," he observed, "how far one can be said to owe
anything to those who are really friends. A husband, for instance. One
can't keep a ledger account with him."

"A husband is a different matter altogether," she asserted coldly. "Now
I wonder whether we shall find my favourite table full. Anyhow, I am
going to play at the one nearest the entrance on the right-hand side.
There is a little croupier there whom I like."

They passed up through the entrance and across the floor of the first
suite of rooms to the Cercle Prive. Violet looked eagerly towards the
table of which she had spoken. To her joy there was plenty of room.

"My favourite seat is empty!" she exclaimed. "I know that I am going to
be lucky."

"I think that I shall play myself, for a change," Draconmeyer announced,
producing a great roll of notes.

"Whenever you feel that you would like to go down and have something,
don't mind me, will you?" she begged. "You can come back and talk to me
at any time. I am not in the least hungry yet."

"Very well," he agreed. "Good luck to you!" They played at opposite
sides of the table. For an hour she won and he lost. Once she called him
over to her side.

"I scarcely dare to tell you," she whispered, her eyes gleaming, "but I
have won back the first thousand pounds. I shall give it to you
to-night. Here, take it now."

He shook his head and waved it away. "I haven't the cheques with me," he
protested. "Besides, it is bad luck to part with any of your winnings
while you are still playing."

He watched her for a minute or two. She still won.

"Take my advice," he said earnestly. "Play higher. You have had a most
unusual run of bad luck. The tide has turned. Make the most of it. I
have lost ten mille. I am going to have a try your side of the table."

He found a vacant chair a few places lower down, and commenced playing
in maximums. From the moment of his arrival he began to win, and
simultaneously Violet began to lose. Her good-fortune deserted her
absolutely, and for the first time she showed signs of losing her
self-control. She gave vent to little exclamations of disgust as stake
after stake was swept away. Her eyes were much too bright, there was a
spot of colour in her cheeks. She spoke angrily to a croupier who
delayed handing her some change. Draconmeyer, although he knew perfectly
well what was happening, never seemed to glance in her direction. He
played with absolute recklessness for half-an-hour. When at last he rose
from his seat and joined her, his hands were full of notes. He smiled
ever so faintly as he saw the covetous gleam in her eyes.

"I'm nearly broken," she gasped. "Leave off playing, please, for a
little time. You've changed my luck."

He obeyed, standing behind her chair. Three more coups she played and
lost. Then she thrust her hand into her bag and drew it out, empty. She
was suddenly pale.

"I have lost my last louis," she declared. "I don't understand it. It
seemed as though I must win here."

"So you will in time," he assured her confidently. "How much will you
have--ten mille or twenty?"

She shrank back, but the sight of the notes in his hand fascinated her.
She glanced up at him. His pallor was unchanged, there was no sign of
exultation in his face. Only his eyes seemed a little brighter than
usual beneath his gold-rimmed spectacles.

"No, give me ten," she said.

She took them from his hand and changed them quickly into plaques. Her
first coup was partially successful. He leaned closer over her.

"Remember," he pointed out, "that you only need to win once in a dozen
times and you do well. Don't be in such a hurry."

"Of course," she murmured. "Of course! One forgets that. It is all a
matter of capital."

He strolled away to another table. When he came back, she was sitting
idle in her place, restless and excited, but still full of confidence.

"I am a little to the good," she told him, "but I have left off for a
few minutes. The very low numbers are turning up and they are no use to
me."

"Come and have that sandwich," he begged. "You really ought to take
something."

"The place shall be kept for madame," the croupier whispered. "I shall
be here for another two hours."

She nodded and rose. They made their way out of the Rooms and down into
the restaurant on the ground-floor. They found a little table near the
wall and he ordered some pate sandwiches and champagne. Whilst they
waited she counted up her money, making calculations on a slip of paper.
Draconmeyer leaned back in his chair, watching her. His back was towards
the door and they were at the end table. He permitted himself the luxury
of looking at her almost greedily; of dropping, for a few moments, the
mask which he placed always upon his features in her presence. In his
way the man was an artist, a great collector of pictures and bronzes, a
real lover and seeker after perfection. Often he found himself wandering
towards his little gallery, content to stand about and gloat over some
of his most treasured possessions. Yet the man's personality clashed
often with his artistic pretensions. He scarcely ever found himself
amongst his belongings without realising the existence of a curious
feeling, wholly removed from the pure artistic pleasure of their
contemplation. It was the sense of ownership which thrilled him.
Something of the same sensation was upon him now. She was the sort of
woman he had craved for always--slim, elegant, and what to him, with his
quick powers of observation, counted for so much, she was modish,
reflecting in her presence, her dress and carriage, even her speech, the
best type of the prevailing fashion. She excited comment wherever she
appeared. People, as he knew very well even now, were envying him his
companion. And beneath it all--she, the woman, was there. All his life
he had fought for the big things--political power, immense wealth, the
confidence of his great master--all these had come to him easily. And at
that moment they were like baubles!

She looked up at last and there was a slight frown upon her forehead.

"I am still a little down, starting from where I had the ten mille," she
sighed. "I thought--"

She stopped short. There was a curious change in her face. Her eyes were
fixed upon some person approaching. Draconmeyer turned quickly in his
chair. Almost as he did so, Hunterleys paused before their table. Violet
looked up at him with quivering lips. For a moment it seemed as though
she were stepping out of her sordid surroundings.

"Henry!" she exclaimed. "Did you come to look for me? Did you know that
we were here?"

"How should I?" he answered calmly. "I was strolling around with David
Briston. We are at the Opera."

"At the Opera," she repeated.

"My little protegee, Felicia Roche, is singing," he went on, "in _Aida_.
If she does as well in the next act as she has done in this, her future
is made."

He was on the point of adding the news of Felicia's engagement to the
young man who had momentarily deserted him. Some evil chance changed his
intention.

"Why do you call her your little protegee?" she demanded.

"It isn't quite correct, is it?" he answered, a little absently. "There
are three or four of us who are doing what we can to look after her. Her
father was a prominent member of the Wigwam Club. The girl won the
musical scholarship we have there. She has more than repaid us for our
trouble, I am glad to say."

"I have no doubt that she has," Violet replied, lifting her eyes.

There was a moment's silence. The significance of her words was entirely
lost upon Hunterleys.

"Isn't this rather a new departure of yours?" he asked, glancing
disdainfully towards Draconmeyer. "I thought that you so much preferred
to play at the Club."

"So I do," she assented, "but I was just beginning to win when the Club
closed at eight o'clock, and so we came on here."

"Your good fortune continues, I hope?"

"It varies," she answered hurriedly, "but it will come, I am sure. I
have been very near a big win more than once."

He seemed on the point of departure. She leaned a little forward.

"You had my note, Henry?"

Her tone was almost beseeching. Draconmeyer, who was listening with
stony face, shivered imperceptibly.

"Thank you, yes," Hunterleys replied, frowning slightly. "I am sorry,
but I am not at liberty to do what you suggest just at present. I wish
you good fortune."

He turned around and walked back to the other end of the room, where
Briston was standing at the bar. She looked after him for a moment as
though she failed to understand his words. Then her face hardened.
Draconmeyer leaned towards her.

"Shall we go?" he suggested.

She rose with alacrity. Side by side they strolled through the rooms
towards the Cercle Prive.

"I am sorry," Draconmeyer said regretfully, "but I am forced to leave
you now. I will take you back to your place and after that I must go to
the hotel and change. I have a reception to attend. I wish you would
take the rest of my winnings and see what you can do with them."

She shook her head vigorously.

"No, thank you," she declared. "I have enough."

He shrugged his shoulders.

"I have twenty-five mille here in my pocket," he continued, "besides
some smaller change. I don't think it is quite fair to leave so much
money about in one's room or to carry it out into the country. Keep it
for me. You won't need to play with it--I can see that your luck is
in--but it always gives one confidence to feel that one has a reserve
stock, something to fall back upon if necessary."

He drew the notes from his pocket and held them towards her. Her eyes
were fixed upon them covetously. The thought of all that money actually
in her possession was wildly exhilarating.

"I will take care of them for you, if you like," she said. "I shall not
play with them, though. I owe you quite enough already and my losing
days are over."

He stuffed the notes carelessly into her bag.

"Twenty-five mille," he told her. "Remember my advice. If the luck stays
with you, stake maximums. Go for the big things."

She looked at him curiously as she closed her gold bag with a snap.

"After all," she declared, with a little laugh, "I am not sure that you
are not the greater gambler of the two to trust me with all this money!"




XVIII

TO THE VILLA MIMOSA


With feet that seemed to touch nothing more substantial than air, her
eyes brilliant, a wonderful colour in her cheeks, Violet passed through
the heavy, dingy rooms and out through the motley crowd into the portico
of the Casino. She was right! She knew that she had been right! How wise
she had been to borrow that money from Mr. Draconmeyer instead of
sitting down and confessing herself vanquished! The last few hours had
been hours of ecstatic happiness. With calm confidence she had sat in
her place and watched her numbers coming up with marvellous persistence.
It was the most wonderful thing in the world, this. She had had no time
to count her winnings, but at least she knew that she could pay back
every penny she owed. Her little gold satchel was stuffed with notes and
plaques. She felt suddenly younger, curiously light-hearted; hungry,
too, and thirsty. She was, in short, experiencing almost a delirium of
pleasure. And just then, on the steps of the Casino, she came face to
face with her husband.

"Henry!" she called out. "Henry!"

He turned abruptly around. He was looking troubled, and in his hand were
the fragments of a crushed up note.

"Come across to the hotel with me," she begged, forgetful of everything
except her own immense relief. "Come and help me count. I have been
winning. I have won back everything."

He accepted the information with only a polite show of interest. After
all, as she reflected afterwards, he had no idea upon what scale she had
been gambling!

"I am delighted to hear it," he answered. "I'll see you across the road,
if I may, but I have only a few minutes to spare. I have an
appointment."

She was acutely disappointed; unreasonably, furiously angry.

"An appointment!" she exclaimed. "At half-past eleven o'clock at night!
Are you waiting for Felicia Roche?"

"Is there any reason why I should not?" he asked her gravely.

She bit her lips hard. They were crossing the road now. After all, it
was only a few months since she had bidden him go his own way and leave
her to regulate her own friendships.

"No reason at all," she admitted, "only I cannot see why you choose to
advertise yourself with an opera singer--you, an ambitious politician,
who moves with his head in the clouds, and to whom women are no more
than a pastime. Why have you waited all these years to commence a
flirtation under my very nose!"

He looked at her sternly.

"I think that you are a little excited, Violet," he said. "You surely
don't realise what you are saying."

"Excited! Tell me once more--you got my note, the one I wrote this
evening?"

"Certainly."

His brief reply was convincing. She remembered the few impulsive lines
which she had written from her heart in that moment of glad relief.
There was no sign in his face that he had been touched. Even at that
moment he had drawn out his watch and was looking at it.

"Thank you for bringing me here," she said, as they stood upon the steps
of the hotel. "Don't let me keep you."

"After all," he decided, "I think that I shall go up to my room for a
minute. Good night!"

She looked after him, a little amazed. She was conscious of a feeling of
slow anger. His aloofness repelled her, was utterly inexplicable. For
once it was she who was being badly treated. Her moment of exhilaration
had passed. She sat down in the lounge; her satchel, filled with mille
franc notes, lay upon her lap unheeded. She sat there thinking, seeing
nothing of the crowds of fashionably dressed women and men passing in
and out of the hotel; of the gaily-lit square outside, the cool green of
the gardens, the cafe opposite, the brilliantly-lit Casino. She was back
again for a moment in England. The strain of all this life, whipped into
an artificial froth of pleasure by the constant excitement of the one
accepted vice of the world, had suddenly lost its hold upon her. The
inevitable question had presented itself. She was counting values and
realising....

When at last she rose wearily to her feet, Hunterleys was passing
through the hall of the hotel, on his way out. She looked at him with
aching heart but she made no effort to stop him. He had changed his
clothes for a dark suit and he was also wearing a long travelling coat
and tweed cap. She watched him wistfully until he had disappeared. Then
she turned away, summoned the lift and went up to her rooms. She rang at
once for her maid. She would take a bath, she decided, and go to bed
early. She would wash all the dust of these places away from her, abjure
all manner of excitement and for once sleep peacefully. In the morning
she would see Henry once more. Deep in her heart there still lingered
some faint shadow of doubt as to Draconmeyer and his attitude towards
her. It was scarcely possible that he could have interfered in any way,
and yet.... She would talk to her husband face to face, she would tell
him the things that were in her heart.

She rang the bell for the second time. Only the _femme de chambre_
answered the summons. Madame's maid was not to be found. Madame had not
once retired so early. It was possible that Susanne had gone out. Could
she be of any service? Violet looked at her and hesitated. The woman was
clumsy-fingered and none too tidy. She shook her head and sent her away.
For a moment she thought of undressing herself. Then instead she opened
her satchel and counted the notes. Her breath came more quickly as she
looked at the shower of gold and counted the many oblong strips of paper
with their magic lettering. At last she had it all in heaps. There were
the twenty-five mille he had left with her, and the seventy-five mille
she had borrowed from him. Then towards her own losses there was another
mille, and a matter of five hundred francs in gold. And all this
success, her wonderful recovery, had been done so easily! It was just
because she had had the pluck to go on, because she had followed her
vein. She looked at the money and she walked to the window. Somewhere a
band was playing in the distance. Little parties of men and women in
evening dress were strolling by on their way to the Club. A woman was
laughing as she clung to her escort on the opposite side of the road, by
the gardens. Across at the Cafe de Paris the people were going in to
supper. The spirit of enjoyment seemed to be in the air--the
light-hearted, fascinating, devil-may-care atmosphere she knew so well.
Violet looked back into the bedroom and she no longer had the impulse to
sleep. Her face had hardened a little. Every one was so happy and she
was so lonely. She stuffed the notes and gold back into her bag, looked
at her hat in the glass and touched her face for a moment with a
powder-puff. Then she left the room, rang for the lift and descended.

"I am going into the Club for an hour or so, if I am wanted," she told
the concierge as she passed out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hunterleys, on leaving the hotel, walked rapidly across the square and
found David waiting for him on the opposite side.

"Felicia will be late," the latter explained. "She has to get all that
beastly black stuff off her face. She is horribly nervous about Sidney
and she doesn't want you to wait. I think perhaps she is right, too. She
told me to tell you that Monsieur Lafont himself came to her room and
congratulated her after the curtain had gone down. She is almost
hysterical between happiness and anxiety about Sidney. Where's your
man?"

"I asked him to be a little higher up," Hunterleys replied. "There he
is."

They walked a few steps up the hill and found Richard Lane waiting for
them in his car. The long, grey racer looked almost like some submarine
monster, with its flaring head-lights and torpedo-shaped body which
scarcely cleared the ground.

"Ready for orders, sir," the young man announced, touching his cap.

"Is there room for three of us, in case of an emergency?" Hunterleys
asked.

"The third man has to sit on the floor," Richard pointed out, "but it
isn't so comfortable as it looks."

Hunterleys clambered in and took the vacant place. David Briston
lingered by a little wistfully.

"I feel rather a skunk," he grumbled. "I don't see why I shouldn't come
along."

Hunterleys shook his head.

"There isn't the slightest need for it," he declared firmly. "You go
back and look after Felicia. Tell her we'll get Sidney out of this all
right. Get away with you, Lane, now."

"Where to?"

"To the Villa Mimosa!"

Richard whistled as he thrust in his clutch.

"So that's the game, is it?" he murmured, as they glided off.

Hunterleys leaned towards him.

"Lane," he said, "don't forget that I warned you there might be a little
trouble about to-night. If you feel the slightest hesitation about
involving yourself--"

"Shut up!" Richard interrupted. "Whatever trouble you're ready to face,
I'm all for it, too. Darned queer thing that we should be going to the
Villa Mimosa, though! I am not exactly a popular person with Mr. Grex, I
think."

Hunterleys smiled.

"I saw your sister this afternoon," he remarked. "You are rather a
wonderful young man."

"I knew it was all up with me," Richard replied simply, "when I first
saw that girl. Now look here, Hunterleys, we are almost there. Tell me
exactly what it is you want me to do?"

"I want you," Hunterleys explained, "to risk a smash, if you don't mind.
I want you to run up to the boundaries of the villa gardens, head your
car back for Monte Carlo, and while you are waiting there turn out all
your lights."

"That's easy enough," Richard assented. "I'll turn out the search-light
altogether, and my others are electric, worked by a button. Is this an
elopement act or what?"

"There's a meeting going on in that villa," Hunterleys told him,
"between prominent politicians of three countries. You don't have to
bother much about Secret Service over in the States, although there's
more goes on than you know of in that direction. But over here we have
to make regular use of Secret Service men--spies, if you like to call
them so. The meeting to-night is inimical to England. It is part of a
conspiracy against which I am working. Sidney Roche--Felicia Roche's
brother--who lives here as a newspaper correspondent, is in reality one
of our best Secret Service men. He is taking terrible chances to-night
to learn a little more about the plans which these fellows are
discussing. We are here in case he needs our help to get away. We've
cleared the shrubs away, close to the spot at which I am going to ask
you to wait, and taken the spikes off the fence. It's just a thousand to
one chance that if he's hard pressed for it and heads this way, they may
think that they have him in a trap and take it quietly. That is to say,
they'll wait to capture him instead of shooting."

"Say, you don't mean this seriously?" Richard exclaimed. "They can't do
more than arrest him as a trespasser, or something of that sort,
surely?"

Hunterleys laughed grimly.

"These men wouldn't stick at much," he told his companion. "They're hand
in glove with the authorities here. Anything they did would be hushed up
in the name of the law. These things are never allowed to come out. It
doesn't do any one any good to have them gossiped about. If they caught
Sidney and shot him, we should never make a protest. It's all part of
the game, you know. Now that is the spot I want you to stop at, exactly
where the mimosa tree leans over the path. But first of all, I'd turn
out your head-light."

They slowed down and stopped. Richard extinguished the acetylene
gas-lamp and mounted again to his place. Then he swung the car round and
crawled back upon the reverse until he reached the spot to which
Hunterleys had pointed.

"You're a good fellow, Richard," Hunterleys said softly. "We may have to
wait an hour or two, and it may be that nothing will happen, but it's
giving the fellow a chance, and it gives him confidence, too, to know
that friends are at hand."

"I'm in the game for all it's worth, anyway," Lane declared heartily.

He touched a button and the lights faded away. The two men sat in
silence, both turned a little in their seats towards the villa.




XIX

FOR HIS COUNTRY


The minutes glided by as the two men sat together in the perfumed,
shadowy darkness. From their feet the glittering canopy of lights swept
upwards to the mountain-sides, even to the stars, but a chain of slowly
drifting black clouds hung down in front of the moon, and until their
eyes became accustomed to their surroundings it seemed to both of them
as though they were sitting in a very pit of darkness.

"It is possible," Hunterleys whispered, after some time, "that we may
have to wait for another hour yet."

Richard was suddenly tense. He sat up, and his foot reached for the
self-starter.

"I don't think you will," he muttered. "Listen!"

Almost immediately they were conscious of some commotion in the
direction of the villa, followed by a shot and then a cry.

"Start the engine," Hunterleys directed hoarsely, standing up in his
place. "I'm afraid they've got him."

There were two more shots but no further cry. Then they heard the sound
of excited voices and immediately afterwards rapidly approaching
footsteps. A man came crashing through the shrubbery, but when he
reached the fence over which, for a moment, his white face gleamed, he
sank down as though powerless to climb. Hunterleys leapt to the ground
and rushed to the fence.

"Hold up, Sidney, old fellow," he called softly. "We're here all right.
Hold up for a moment and let me lift you."

Roche struggled to his feet. His face was ghastly white, the sweat stood
out upon his forehead, his lips moved but no words came. Hunterleys got
him by the arms, set his teeth and lifted. The task would have been too
much for him, but Richard, springing from the car, came to his help.
With an effort they hoisted him over the fence. Almost as they did so
there was the sound of footsteps dashing through the shrubs, and a shot,
the bullet of which tore the bark from the trunk of a tree close at
hand. The car leapt off in fourth speed, Sidney supported in Hunterleys'
arms. A loud shout from behind only brought Richard's foot down upon the
accelerator.

"Stoop low!" he cried to Hunterleys. "Get your legs in, if you can."

A bullet struck the back of the car and another whistled over their
heads. Then they dashed around the corner, and Richard, turning on the
lights, jammed down his accelerator.

"Gee whiz! that's a bloodthirsty crew!" the young man exclaimed, his
eyes fixed upon the road. "Is he hurt?"

Roche was lying back on the seat. Hunterleys was on his knees, holding
on to the framework of the car.

"They've got me all right, Hunterleys," Roche faltered. "Listen.
Everything went well with me at first. I could hear--nearly everything.
The Frenchman kept his mouth shut--tight as wax. Grex did most of the
talking. Russia sees nothing in the entente--England has nothing to
offer her. She'd rather keep friends with Germany. Russia wants to move
eastward--all Persia--India. She's only lukewarm, any way, about the
French alliance as things stand at present, and dead off any truck with
England. There's talk of Constantinople, and Germany to march three army
corps through a weak French resistance to Calais. They talked of France
acting to her pledges, putting her recruits in the front, taking a
slight defeat, making a peace on her own account, with Alsace and
Lorraine restored. She can pay. Germany wants the money.
Germany--Germany--"

The words died away in a little groan. The wounded man's head fell back.
Hunterleys passed his arm around the limp figure.

"Take the first turn to the right and second to the left, Richard," he
directed. "We'll drive straight to the hospital. I made friends with the
English doctor last night. He promised to be there till three. I paid
him a fee on purpose."

"First to the right," Richard muttered, swinging around. "Second to the
left, eh?"

Hunterleys was holding his brandy flask to Roche's lips as they swung
through the white gates and pulled up outside the hospital. The doctor
was faithful to his promise, and Roche, who was now unconscious, was
carried in. In the hall he was laid upon an ambulance and borne off by
two attendants. Hunterleys and Lane sat down to wait in the hall. After
what seemed to them an interminable half-hour, the doctor reappeared. He
came over to them at once.

"Your friend may live," he announced, "but in any case he will be
unconscious for the next twenty-four hours. There is no need for you to
stay, or for you to fetch the young lady you spoke of, at present. If he
dies, he will die unconscious. I can tell you nothing more until the
afternoon."

Hunterleys rose slowly to his feet.

"You'll do everything you can, doctor?" he begged. "Money doesn't
count."

"Money never counts here," the doctor replied gravely. "We shall save
him if it is possible. You've nothing to tell me, I suppose, as to how
he met with his wound?"

"Nothing."

They walked out together into the night. The bank of clouds had drifted
away now and the moon was shining. Below them, barely a quarter of a
mile away, they could see the flare of lights from the Casino. A woman
was laughing hysterically through the open windows of a house on the
other side of the way. Some one was playing a violin in a cafe at the
corner of the street.

"Richard," Hunterleys said, "will you see me through? I have to get to
Cannes as fast as I can to send a cable. I daren't send it from here,
even in code."

"I'll drive you to Cannes like a shot," Richard assented heartily. "Just
a brandy and soda on our way out, and I'll show you some pretty
driving."

They stopped at the Cafe de Paris and left the car under the trees. Both
men took a long drink and Richard filled his pocket with cigarettes.
Then they re-entered the car, lit up, and glided off on the road for
Cannes. Richard had become more serious. His boyish manner and
appearance had temporarily gone. He drove, even, with less than his
usual recklessness.

"That was a fine fellow," he remarked enthusiastically, after a long
pause, "that fellow Roche!"

"And we've many more like him," Hunterleys declared. "We've men in every
part of the world doing what seems like dirty work, ill-paid work, too,
doing it partly, perhaps, because the excitement grows on them and they
love it, but always, they have to start in cold blood. The papers don't
always tell the truth, you know. There's many a death in foreign cities
you read of as a suicide, or the result of an accident, when it's really
the sacrifice of a hero for his country. It's great work, Richard."

"Makes me feel kind of ashamed," Richard muttered. "I've never done
anything but play around all my life. Anyway, those sort of things don't
come to us in our country. America's too powerful and too isolated to
need help of that description. We shouldn't have any use for politicians
of your class, or for Secret Service men."

"If you're in earnest," Hunterleys advised, "you go to Washington and
ask them about it some day. The time's coming, if it hasn't already
arrived, when your country will have to develop a different class of
politicians. You see, whether she wants it or not, she is coming into
touch, through Asia and South America, with European interests, and if
she does, she'll have to adopt their methods more or less. Poor old
Roche! There was something more he wanted to say, and if it's what I've
been expecting, your country was in it."

"I guess I'll take Fedora over for our honeymoon," Richard decided
softly. "Don't see why I shouldn't come into one of the Embassies. I'm a
bit of a hulk to go about the world doing nothing."

Hunterleys laughed quietly.

"My young friend," he said, "aren't you taking your marriage prospects a
little for granted? May I be there when you ask Augustus Nicholas Ivan
Peter, Grand Duke of Vassura, Prince of Melinkoff, cousin of His
Imperial Majesty the Czar, for the hand of his daughter in marriage!"

"So that's it, is it?" Lane murmured. "Why didn't you tell me before?"

Hunterleys shook his head. He gazed steadfastly along the road in front
of him.

"It wasn't to my interest to have it known too generally," he said, "and
I am afraid your little love affair didn't strike me as being of much
importance by the side of the other things. But you've earned the truth,
if it's any use to you."

"Well," Richard observed, "I wasn't counting on having any witnesses,
but you can come along if you like. I suppose," he added, "I shall have
to do him the courtesy of asking his permission, but--"

"But what?" Hunterleys asked curiously.

They were on a long stretch of straight, white road. Richard looked for
a moment up to the sky, and Hunterleys, watching him, was amazed at the
transformation.

"There isn't a Grand Duke or a Prince or an Imperial Majesty alive," he
said, "who could rob me of Fedora!"




XX

"SUPPOSING I TAKE THIS MONEY"


There was a momentary commotion in the Club. A woman had fainted at one
of the roulette tables. Her chair was quickly drawn back. She was helped
out to the open space at the top of the stairs and placed in an
easy-chair there. Lady Weybourne, who was on the point of leaving with
her husband, hastened back. She stood there while the usual restoratives
were being administered, fanning the unconscious woman with a white
ostrich fan which hung from her waist. Presently Violet opened her eyes.
She recognised Lady Weybourne and smiled weakly.

"I am so sorry," she murmured. "It was silly of me to stay in here so
long. I went without my dinner, too, which was rather idiotic."

A man who had announced himself a doctor, bent over her pulse and turned
away.

"The lady will be quite all right now," he said. "You can give her
brandy and soda if she feels like it. Pardon!"

He hastened back to his place at the baccarat table. Lady Hunterleys sat
up.

"It was quite absurd of me," she declared. "I don't know what--"

She stopped suddenly. The weight was once more upon her heart, the
blankness before her eyes. She remembered!

"I am quite able to go home now," she added.

Her gold bag lay upon her lap. It was almost empty. She looked at it
vacantly and then closed the snap.

"We'll see you back to the hotel," Lady Weybourne said soothingly. "Here
comes Harry with the brandy and soda."

Lord Weybourne came hurrying from the bar, a tumbler in his hand.

"How nice of you!" Violet exclaimed gratefully. "Really, I feel that
this is just what I need. I wonder what time it is?"

"Half past four," Lord Weybourne announced, glancing at his watch.

She laughed weakly.

"How stupid of me! I have been between here and the Casino for nearly
twelve hours, and had nothing to eat. No, I won't have anything here,
thanks," she added, as Lord Weybourne started back again for the bar,
muttering something about a sandwich. "I'll have something in my room.
If you are going back to the hotel, perhaps I could come with you."

They all three left the place together, passing along the private way.

"I haven't seen your brother all day," Violet remarked to Lady
Weybourne.

"Richard's gone off somewhere in the car to-night, a most mysterious
expedition," his sister declared. "I began to think that it must be an
elopement, but I see the yacht's there still, and he would surely choose
the yacht in preference to a motor-car, if he were running off with
anybody! Your husband doesn't come into the rooms much?"

Violet shook her head.

"He hasn't the gambling instinct," she said quietly. "Perhaps he is just
as well without it. One gets a lot of amusement out of this playing for
small stakes, but it is irritating to lose. Thank you so much for
looking after me," she added, as they reached the hall of the hotel. "I
am quite all right now and my woman will be sitting up for me."

She passed into the lift. Lady Weybourne looked after her admiringly.

"Say, she's got some pluck, Harry!" she murmured. "They say she lost
nearly a hundred mille to-night and she never even mentioned her
losings. Irritating, indeed! I wonder what Sir Henry thinks of it. They
are only moderately well off."

Her husband shrugged his shoulders, after the fashion of his sex.

"Let us hope," he said, "that it is Sir Henry who suffers."

       *       *       *       *       *

Violet slipped out of her gown and dismissed her maid. In her
dressing-gown she sat before the open window. Everywhere the place
seemed steeped in the faint violet and purple light preceding the dawn.
Away eastwards she could catch a glimpse of the mountains, their peaks
cut sharply against the soft, deep sky; a crystalline glow, the first
herald of the hidden sunrise, hanging about their summits. The gentle
breeze from the Mediterranean was cool and sweet. There were many lights
still gleaming upon the sea, but their effect now seemed tawdry. She sat
there, her head resting upon her hands. She had the feeling of being
somehow detached from the whole world of visible objects, as though,
indeed, she were on her death-bed. Surely it was not possible to pass
any further through life than this! In her thoughts she went back to the
first days of estrangement between her husband and herself. Almost
before she realised it, she found herself struggling against the
tenderness which still survived, which seemed at that moment to be
tearing at her heart-strings. He had ceased to care, she told herself.
It was all too apparent that he had ceased to care. He was amusing
himself elsewhere. Her little impulsive note had not won even a kind
word from him. Her appeals, on one excuse or another, had been
disregarded. She had lost her place in his life, thrown it away, she
told herself bitterly. And in its stead--what! A new fear of Draconmeyer
was stealing over her. He presented himself suddenly as an evil genius.
She went back through the last few days. Her brain seemed unexpectedly
clear, her perceptions unerring. She saw with hateful distinctness how
he had forced this money upon her, how he had encouraged her all the
time to play beyond her means. She realised the cunning with which he
had left that last bundle of notes in her keeping. Well, there the facts
were. She owed him now four thousand pounds. She had no money of her
own, she was already overdrawn with her allowance. There was no chance
of paying him. She realised, with a little shudder, that he did not want
payment, a realisation which had come to her dimly from the first, but
which she had pushed away simply because she had felt sure of winning.
Now there was the price to be paid! She leaned further out of the
window. Away to her left the glow over the mountains was becoming
stained with the faintest of pinks. She looked at it long, with mute and
critical appreciation. She swept with her eyes the line of violet
shadows from the mountain-tops to the sea-board, where the pale lights
of Bordighera still flickered. She looked up again from the dark blue
sea to the paling stars. It was all wonderful--theatrical, perhaps, but
wonderful--and how she hated it! She stood up before the window and with
her clenched fists she beat against the sills. Those long days and
feverish nights through which she had passed slowly unfolded themselves.
In those few moments she seemed to taste again the dull pain of constant
disappointment, the hectic thrills of occasional winnings, the strange,
dull inertia which had taken the place of resignation. She looked into
the street below. How long would she live afterwards, she wondered, if
she threw herself down! She began even to realise the state of mind
which breeds suicides, the brooding over a morrow too hateful to be
faced.

As she still stood there, the silence of the street below was broken. A
motor-car swung round the corner and swept past the side of the hotel.
She caught at the curtain as she recognised its occupants. Richard Lane
was driving, and by his side sat her husband. The car was covered with
dust, both men seemed weary as though they had been out all night. She
gazed after them with fast-beating heart. She had pictured her husband
at the villa on the hill! Where had he been with Richard Lane? Perhaps,
after all, the things which she had imagined were not true. The car had
stopped now at the front door. It returned a moment later on its way to
the garage, with only Lane driving. She opened her door and stood there
silently. Hunterleys would have to pass the end of the corridor if he
came up by the main lift. She waited with fast beating heart. The
seconds passed. Then she heard the rattle of the lift ascending, its
click as it stopped, and soon afterwards the footsteps of a man. He was
coming--coming past the corner! At that moment she felt that the sound
of his footsteps was like the beating of fate. They came nearer and she
shrank a little back. There was something unfamiliar about them. Whoever
it might be, it was not Henry! And then suddenly Draconmeyer came into
sight. He saw her standing there and stopped short. Then he came rapidly
near.

"Lady Hunterleys!" he exclaimed softly. "You still up?"

She hesitated. Then she stood on one side, still grasping the handle of
the door.

"Do you want to come in?" she asked. "You may. I have something to say
to you. Perhaps I shall sleep better if I say it now."

He stepped quickly past her.

"Close the door," he whispered cautiously.

She obeyed him deliberately.

"There is no hurry," she said. "This is my sitting-room. I receive whom
I choose here."

"But it is nearly six o'clock!" he exclaimed.

"That does not affect me," she answered, shrugging her shoulders. "Sit
down."

He obeyed. There was something changed about her, something which he did
not recognise. She thrust her hands into a box of cigarettes, took one
out and lit it. She leaned against the table, facing him.

"Listen," she continued, "I have borrowed from you three thousand
pounds. You left with me to-night--I don't know whether you meant to
lend it to me or whether I had it on trust, but you left it in my
charge--another thousand pounds. I have lost it all--all, you
understand--the four thousand pounds and every penny I have of my own."

He sat quite still. He was watching her through his gold-rimmed
spectacles. There was the slightest possible frown upon his forehead.
The time for talking of money as though it were a trifle had passed.

"That is a great deal," he said.

"It is a great deal," she admitted. "I owe it to you and I cannot pay.
What are you going to do?"

He watched her eagerly. There was a new note in her voice. He paused to
consider what it might mean. A single false step now and he might lose
all that he had striven for.

"How am I to answer that?" he asked softly. "I will answer it first in
the way that seems most natural. I will beg you to accept your losings
as a little gift from me--as a proof, if you will, of my friendship."

He had saved the situation. If he had obeyed his first impulse, the
affair would have been finished. He realised it as he watched her face,
and he shuddered at the thought of his escape. His words obviously
disturbed her.

"It is not possible for me," she protested, "to accept money from you."

"Not from Linda's husband?"

She threw her cigarette into the grate and stood looking at him.

"Do you offer it to me as Linda's husband?" she demanded.

It was a crisis for which Draconmeyer was scarcely prepared. He was
driven out of his pusillanimous compromise. She was pressing him hard
for the truth. Again the fear of losing her altogether terrified him.

"If I have other feelings of which I have not spoken," he said quietly,
"have I not kept them to myself? Do I obtrude them upon you even now? I
am content to wait."

"To wait for what?" she insisted.

All that had been in his mind seemed suddenly miraged before him--the
removal of Hunterleys, his own wife's failing health. The way had seemed
so clear only a little time ago, and now the clouds were back again.

"Until you appreciate the fact," he told her, "that you have no more
sincere friend, that there is no one who values your happiness more than
I do."

"Supposing I take this money from you," she asked, after a moment's
pause. "Are there any conditions?"

"None whatever," he answered.

She turned away with a little sigh. The tragedy which a few minutes ago
she had seen looming up, eluded her. She had courted a denouement in
vain. He was too clever.

"You are very generous," she said. "We will speak of this to-morrow. I
called you in because I could not bear the uncertainty of it all. Please
go now."

He rose slowly to his feet. She gave him her hand lifelessly. He kept it
for a moment. She drew it away and looked at the place where his lips
had touched it, wonderingly. It was as though her fingers had been
scorched with fire.

"It shall be to-morrow," he whispered, as he passed out.




XXI

NEARING A CRISIS


From the wilds of Scotland to Monte Carlo, as fast as motor-cars and
train de luxe could bring him, came the right Honourable Meredith
Simpson, a very distinguished member of His Majesty's Government.
Hunterleys, advised of his coming by telegram from Marseilles, met him
at the station, and together the two men made their way at once to
Hunterleys' room across at the Hotel de Paris. Behind locked doors they
spoke for the first time of important matters.

"It's a great find, this of yours, Hunterleys," the Minister
acknowledged, "and it is corroborated, too, by what we know is happening
around us. We have had all the warning in the world just lately. The
Russian Ambassador is in St. Petersburg on leave of absence--in fact for
the last six months he has been taking his duties remarkably lightly.
Tell me how you first heard of the affair?"

"I got wind of it in Sofia," Hunterleys explained. "I travelled from
there quite quietly, loitered about the Italian Riviera, and came on
here as a tourist. The only help I could get hold of here was from
Sidney Roche, who, as you know, is one of our Secret Service men. Roche,
I am sorry to say, was shot last night. He may live but he won't be well
enough to take any further hand in the game here, and I have no one to
take his place."

"Roche shot!" Mr. Simpson exclaimed, in a shocked tone. "How did it
happen?"

"They found him lying on the roof of the Villa Mimosa, just over the
room where the meeting was taking place," Hunterleys replied. "They
chased him round the grounds and we just got him off in a motor-car, but
not before he'd been hit twice. He was just able to tell me a little.
The first meeting was quite informal and very guarded. Douaille was most
cautious--he was there only to listen. The second meeting was last
night. Grex was in the chair, representing Russia."

"You mean the Grand Duke Augustus?" Mr. Simpson interrupted.

Hunterleys nodded.

"Grex is the name he is living under here. He explained Russia's
position. Poor Roche was only able to falter a few words, but what he
said was enough to give us the key-note to the whole thing. The long and
short of it all is that Russia turned her face westward so long as
Constantinople was possible. Now that this war has come about and ended
as it has done, Russia's chance has gone. There is no longer any _quid
pro quo_ for her alliance with France. There is no friendship, of
course, between Russia and Germany, but at any rate Russia has nothing
to fear from Germany, and she knows it. Grex is quite frank. They must
look eastward, he said, and when he says eastward, he means Manchuria,
China, Persia, even India. At the same time, Russia has a conscience,
even though it be a diplomatic conscience. Hence this conference. She
doesn't want France crushed. Germany has a proposition. It has been
enunciated up to a certain point. She confers Alsace and Lorraine and
possibly Egypt upon France, for her neutrality whilst she destroys the
British Fleet. Or failing her neutrality, she wants her to place a weak
army on the frontier, which can fall back without much loss before a
German advance. Germany's objective then will be Calais and not Paris,
and from there she will command the Straits and deal with the British
Fleet at her leisure. Meanwhile, she will conclude peace with France on
highly advantageous terms. Don't you see what it means, Simpson? The
elementary part of the thing is as simple as A B C. Germany has nothing
to gain from Russia, she has nothing to gain from France. England is the
only country who can give her what she wants. That is about as far as
they have got, up to now, but there is something further behind it all.
That, Selingman is to tell them to-night."

"The most important point about the whole matter, so far as we are
concerned," Mr. Simpson declared, "is Douaille's attitude. You have
received no indication of that, I suppose?"

"None whatever," Hunterleys answered. "I thought of paying my respects,
but after all, you know, I have no official standing, and personally we
are almost strangers."

The Minister nodded.

"It's a difficult position," he confessed. "Have you copies of your
reports to London?"

"I have copies of them, and full notes of everything that has transpired
so far, in a strong box up at the bank," Hunterleys assented. "We can
stroll up there after lunch and I will place all the documents in your
hands. You can look them through then and decide what is best to be
done."

The Minister rose to his feet.

"I shall go round to my rooms, change my clothes," he announced, "and
meet you presently. We'll lunch across at Ciro's, eh? I didn't mean to
come to Monte Carlo this year, but so long as I am here, I may as well
make the best of it. You are not looking as though the change had done
you much good, Hunterleys."

"The last few days," Hunterleys remarked, a little drily, "have not been
exactly in the nature of a holiday."

"Are you here alone?"

"I came alone. I found my wife here by accident. She came through with
the Draconmeyers. They were supposed to stay at Cannes, but altered
their plans. Of course, Draconmeyer meant to come here all the time."

The Minister frowned.

"Draconmeyer's one man I should be glad to see out of London," he
declared. "Under the pretext of fostering good-will, and that sort of
thing, between the mercantile classes of our two countries, I think that
that fellow has done about as much mischief as it is possible for any
single man to have accomplished. We'll meet in an hour, Hunterleys. My
man is putting out some things for me and I must have a bath."

Hunterleys walked up to the hospital, and to his surprise met Selingman
coming away. The latter saluted him with a wave of the hat and a genial
smile.

"Calling to see our poor invalid?" he enquired blandly.

Hunterleys, although he knew his man, was a little taken aback.

"What share in him do you claim?" he asked.

Selingman sighed.

"Alas!" he confessed, "I fear that my claim would sound a little
cold-blooded. I think that I was the only man who held his gun straight.
Yet, after all, Roche would be the last to bear me any grudge. He was
playing the game, taking his risks. Uncommonly bad marksmen Grex's
private police were, or he'd be in the morgue instead of the hospital."

"I gather that our friend is still alive?" Hunterleys remarked.

"Going on as well as could be expected," Selingman replied.

"Conscious?"

Selingman smiled.

"You see through my little visit of sympathy at once!" he exclaimed.
"Unable to converse, I am assured, and unable to share with his friends
any little information he may have picked up last night. By the way,
whom shall you send to report our little conference to-night? You
wouldn't care to come yourself, would you?"

"I should like to exceedingly," Hunterleys assured him, "if you'd give
me a safe conduct."

Selingman withdrew his cigar from his mouth and laid his hand upon the
other's shoulder.

"My dear friend," he said earnestly, "your safe conduct, if ever I
signed it, would be to the other world. Frankly, we find you rather a
nuisance. We would be better pleased if your Party were in office, and
you with your knees tucked under a desk at Downing Street, attending to
your official business in your official place. Who gave you this roving
commission, eh? Who sent you to talk common sense to the Balkan States,
and how the mischief did you get wind of our little meeting here?"

"Ah!" Hunterleys replied, "I expect you really know all these things."

Selingman, with his feet planted firmly upon the pavement, took a fresh
cigar from his waistcoat pocket, bit off the end and lit it.

"My friend Hunterleys," he continued, "I am enjoying this brief
interchange of confidences. Circumstances have made me, as you see, a
politician, a schemer if you like. Nature meant me to be one of the
frankest, the most truthful, the best-hearted of men. I detest the
tortuous ways of the old diplomacy. The spoken word pleases me best.
That is why I like a few minutes' conversation with the enemy, why I
love to stand here and talk to you with the buttons off our foils. We
are scheming against you and your country, and you know it, and we shall
win. We can't help but win--if not to-day, to-morrow. Your country has
had a marvellously long run of good luck, but it can't last for ever."

Hunterleys smiled.

"Well," he observed, "there's nothing like confidence. If you are so
sure of success, why couldn't you choose a cleaner way to it than by
tampering with our ally?"

Selingman patted his companion on the shoulder.

"Listen, my friend," he said, "there are no such things as allies. An
alliance between two countries is a dead letter so soon as their
interests cease to be identical. Now Austria is our ally because she is
practically Germany. We are both mid-Continental Powers. We both need
the same protection. But England and France! Go back only fifty years,
my dear Hunterleys, and ask yourself--would any living person, living
now and alive then, believe in the lasting nature of such an unnatural
alliance? Wherever you look, in every quarter of the globe, your
interests are opposed. You robbed France of Egypt. She can't have wholly
forgotten. You dominate the Mediterranean through Gibraltar, Malta, and
Cyprus. What does she think of that, I wonder? Isn't a humiliation for
her when she does stop to think of it? You've a thousand years of
quarrels, of fighting and rapine behind you. You can't call yourselves
allies because the thing isn't natural. It never could be. It was only
your mutual, hysterical fear of Germany which drove you into one
another's arms. We fought France once to prove ourselves, and for money.
Just now we don't want either money or territory from France. Perhaps we
don't even want, my dear Englishman, what you think we want, but all the
same, don't blame us for trying to dissolve an unnatural alliance. Was
that Simpson who came by the Luxe this morning?"

"It was," Hunterleys admitted.

"The Right Honourable John William Meredith Simpson!" Selingman recited,
waving his cigar. "Well, well, we certainly have made a stir with our
little meetings here. An inspired English Cabinet Minister,
travel-stained and dusty, arrives with his valet and a black
dispatch-box, to foil our schemes. Send him along, my friend. We are not
at all afraid of Mr. Simpson. Perhaps we may even ask him to join us
this evening."

"I fancy," Hunterleys remarked grimly, "that the Englishman who joins
you this evening will find a home up on the hill here."

"Or down in the morgue there," Selingman grunted, pointing down to
Monaco. "Take care, Hunterleys--take care, man. One of us hates you. It
isn't I. You are fighting a brave fight and a losing fight, but you are
good metal. Try and remember, when you find that you are beaten, that
life has many consolations for the philosopher."

He passed on and Hunterleys entered the hospital. Whilst he was waiting
in the little reception-room, Felicia came in. Her face showed signs of
her night's anxiety.

"Sidney is still unconscious," she announced, her voice shaking a
little. "The doctors seem hopeful--but oh! Sir Henry, it is terrible to
see him lying there just as though he were dead!"

"Sidney will pull through all right," Hunterleys declared,
encouragingly. "He has a wonderful constitution and he is the luckiest
fellow born. He always gets out of trouble, somehow or other."

She came slowly up to him.

"Sir Henry," she said piteously, "I know quite well that Sidney was
willing to take his risks. He went into this thing, knowing it was
dangerous. I want to be brave. What happens must be. But listen. You
won't--you won't rob me of everything in life, will you? You won't send
David after him?"

Hunterleys smiled reassuringly.

"I can promise you that," he told her. "This isn't David's job at all.
He has to stick to his post and help out the bluff as a press
correspondent. Don't be afraid, Felicia. You shall have your David."

She seized his hand and kissed it.

"You have been so kind to me always, Sir Henry," she sighed. "I can't
tell you how thankful I am to think that you don't want David to go and
run these horrible risks."

"No fear of that, I promise you," he assured her once more. "David will
be busy enough pulling the strings another way."

The doctor entered the room and shook hands with Hunterleys. There was
no news, he declared, nothing to be done. The patient must continue in
his present condition for several more hours at least. The symptoms
were, in their way, favourable. Beyond that, nothing could be said.
Felicia and Hunterleys left the hospital together.

"I wonder," she began, as they turned out of the white gates, "whether
you would mind very much if I told you something?"

"Of course not!"

"Yesterday," she continued slowly, "I met Lady Hunterleys. You know, I
have seen her twice when I have been to your house to sing for your
guests. She recognised me, I feel sure, but she didn't seem to want to
see me. She looked surprised when I bowed. I worried about it at first
and then I wondered. You are so very, very secretive just now. Whatever
this affair may be in which you three are all concerned, you never open
your lips about it. Lady Hunterleys probably doesn't know that you have
had to come up to the villa at all hours of the night just to see
Sidney. You don't suppose that by any chance she imagined--that you came
to see me?"

Hunterleys was struck by the thought. He remembered several chance
remarks of his wife. He remembered, too, the coincidence of his recent
visits to the villa having prevented him in each case from acceding to
some request of Violet's.

"I am glad you've mentioned this, child," he said frankly. "Now I come
to think of it, my wife certainly did know that I came up to the villa
very late one night, and she seemed upset about it. Of course, she
hasn't the faintest idea about your brother."

"Well," Felicia declared, with a sigh of relief, "I felt that I had to
tell you. It sounded horribly conceited, in a way, but then she wouldn't
know that you came to see Sidney, or that I was engaged to David.
Misunderstandings do come about so easily, you know, sometimes."

"This one shall be put right, at any rate," he promised her. "Now, if
you will take my advice, you will go home and lie down until the
evening. You are going to sing again, aren't you?"

"If there is no change," she replied. "I know that he would like me to.
You haven't minded--what I've said?"

"Not a bit, child," he assured her; "in fact I think it was very good of
you. Now I'll put you in this carriage and send you home. Think of
nothing except that Sidney is getting better every hour, and sing
to-night as though your voice could reach his bedside. Au revoir!"

He waved his hand to her as she drove off, and returned to the Hotel de
Paris. He found a refreshed and rejuvenated Simpson smoking a cigarette
upon the steps.

"To lunch!" the latter exclaimed. "Afterwards I will tell you my plans."




XXII

AN INTERESTING MEETING


Hunterleys leaned suddenly forward across the little round table.

"The question of whether or no you shall pay your respects to Monsieur
Douaille," he remarked, "is solved. Unless I am very much mistaken, we
are going to have an exceedingly interesting luncheon-party on our
right."

"Monsieur Douaille----" Mr. Simpson began, a little eagerly.

"And the others," Hunterleys interrupted. "Don't look around for a
moment. This is almost historical."

Monsieur Ciro himself, bowing and smiling, was ushering a party of
guests to a round table upon the terrace, in the immediate vicinity of
the two men. Mr. Grex, with his daughter and Lady Hunterleys on one side
and Monsieur Douaille on the other, were in the van. Draconmeyer
followed with Lady Weybourne, and Selingman brought up the rear with the
Comtesse d'Hausson, one of the most prominent leaders of the French
colony in Monte Carlo, and a connection by marriage of Monsieur
Douaille.

[Illustration: Mr. Grex, with his daughter and Lady Hunterleys on one
side and Monsieur Douaille on the other, were in the van.]

"A luncheon-party for Douaille," Hunterleys murmured, as he bowed, to
his wife and exchanged greetings with some of the others. "I wonder what
they think of their neighbours! A little embarrassing for the chief
guest, I am afraid."

"I see your wife is in the enemy's camp," his companion observed.
"Draconmeyer is coming to speak to me. This promises to be interesting."

Draconmeyer and Selingman both came over to greet the English Minister.
Selingman's blue eyes were twinkling with humour, his smile was broad
and irresistible.

"This should send funds up in every capital of Europe," he declared, as
he shook hands. "When Mr. Meredith Simpson takes a holiday, then the
political barometer points to 'set fair'!"

"A tribute to my conscientiousness," the Minister replied, smiling. "I
am glad to see that I am not the only hard-worked statesman who feels
able to take a few days' holiday."

Selingman glanced at the round table and beamed.

"It is true," he admitted. "Every country seems to have sent its
statesmen holiday-making. And what a playground, too!" he added,
glancing towards Hunterleys with something which was almost a wink.
"Here, political crises seem of little account by the side of the
turning wheel. This is where the world unbends and it is well that there
should be such a place. Shall we see you at the Club or in the rooms
later?"

"Without a doubt," Mr. Simpson assented. "For what else does one live in
Monte Carlo?"

"How did you leave things in town?" Mr. Draconmeyer enquired.

"So-so!" the Minister answered. "A little flat, but then it is a dull
season of the year."

"Markets about the same, I suppose?" Mr. Draconmeyer asked.

"I am afraid," Mr. Simpson confessed, "that I only study the city column
from the point of view of what Herr Selingman has just called the
political barometer. Things were a little unsteady when I left. Consols
fell several points yesterday."

Mr. Draconmeyer frowned.

"It is incomprehensible," he declared. "A few months ago there was real
danger, one is forced to believe, of a European war. To-day the crisis
is passed, yet the money-markets which bore up so well through the
critical period seem now all the time on the point of collapse. It is
hard for a banker to know how to operate these days. I wish you
gentlemen in Downing Street, Mr. Simpson, would make it easier for us."

Mr. Simpson shrugged his shoulders.

"The real truth of the matter is," he said, "that you allow your
money-market to become too sensitive an affair. A whisper will depress
it. A threatening word spoken in the Reichstag or in the House of
Parliament, magnified a hundred-fold before it reaches its destination,
has sometimes a most unwarranted effect upon markets. You mustn't blame
us so much, Mr. Draconmeyer. You jump at conclusions too easily in the
city."

"Sound common sense," Mr. Draconmeyer agreed. "You are perfectly right
when you say that we are over-sensitive. The banker deplores it as much
as the politician. It's the money-kings, I suppose, who find it
profitable."

They returned to their table a moment later. As he passed Douaille,
Selingman whispered in his ear. Monsieur Douaille turned around at once
and bowed to Simpson. As he caught the latter's eye he, too, left his
place and came across. Mr. Simpson rose to his feet. The two men bowed
formally before shaking hands.

"Monsieur Simpson," the Frenchman exclaimed, "it is a pleasure to find
that I am remembered!"

"Without a doubt, monsieur," was the prompt reply. "Your last visit to
London, on the occasion when we had the pleasure of entertaining you at
the Guildhall, is too recent, and was too memorable an event altogether
for us to have forgotten. Permit me to assure you that your speech on
that occasion was one which no patriotic Englishman is likely to
forget."

Monsieur Douaille inclined his head in thanks. His manner was not
altogether free from embarrassment.

"I trust that you are enjoying your holiday here?" he asked.

"I have only this moment arrived," Mr. Simpson explained. "I am looking
forward to a few days' rest immensely. I trust that I shall have the
pleasure of seeing something of you, Monsieur Douaille. A little
conversation would be most agreeable."

"In Monte Carlo one meets one's friends all the time," Monsieur Douaille
replied. "I lunch to-day with my friend--our mutual friend, without a
doubt--who calls himself here Mr. Grex."

Mr. Simpson nodded.

"If it is permitted," he suggested, "I should like to do myself the
honour of paying my respects to you."

Monsieur Douaille was flattered.

"My stay here is short," he regretted, "but your visit will be most
acceptable. I am at the Riviera Palace Hotel."

"It is one of my theories," Mr. Simpson remarked, "that politicians are
at a serious disadvantage compared with business men, inasmuch as, with
important affairs under their control, they have few opportunities of
meeting those with whom they have dealings. It would be a great pleasure
to me to discuss one or two matters with you."

Monsieur Douaille departed, with a few charming words of assent. Simpson
looked after him with kindling eyes.

"This," he murmured, leaning across the table, "is a most extraordinary
meeting. There they sit, those very men whom you suspect of this
devilish scheme, within a few feet of us! Positively thrilling,
Hunterleys!"

Hunterleys, too, seemed to feel the stimulating effect of a situation so
dramatic. As the meal progressed, he drew his chair a little closer to
the table and leaned over towards his companion.

"I think," he said, "that we shall both of us remember the coincidence
of this meeting as long as we live. At that luncheon-table, within a few
yards of us, sits Russia, the new Russia, raising his head after a
thousand years' sleep, watching the times, weighing them, realising his
own immeasurable strength, pointing his inevitable finger along the road
which the Russia of to-morrow must tread. There isn't a man in that
great country so much to be feared to-day, from our point of view, as
the Grand Duke Augustus. And look, too, at the same table, within a few
feet, Simpson, of you and of me--Selingman, Selingman who represents the
real Germany; not the war party alone, intoxicated with the clash of
arms, filled with bombastic desires for German triumphs on sea and land,
ever ready to spout in flowery and grandiloquent phrases the glory of
Germany and the Heaven-sent genius of her leaders. I tell you, Simpson,
Selingman is a more dangerous man than that. He sits with folded arms,
in realms of thought above these people. He sits with a map of the world
before him, and he places his finger upon the inevitable spots which
Germany must possess to keep time with the march of the world, to find
new homes for her overflowing millions. He has no military fervour, no
tinselly patriotism. He knows what Germany needs and he will carve her
way towards it. Look at him with his napkin tucked under his chin,
broad-visaged, podgy, a slave, you might think, to the joys of the table
and the grosser things of life. You should see his eyes sometimes when
the right note is struck, watch his mouth when he sits and thinks. He
uses words for an ambush and a barricade. He talks often like a gay
fool, a flood of empty verbiage streams from his lips, and behind, all
the time his brain works."

"You seem to have studied these people, Hunterleys," Simpson remarked
appreciatively.

Hunterleys smiled as he continued his luncheon.

"Forgive me if I was a little prolix," he said, "but, after all, what
would you have? I am out of office but I remain a servant of my country.
My interest is just as keen as though I were in a responsible position."

"You are well out of it," Simpson sighed. "If half what you suspect is
true, it's the worst fix we've been in for some time."

"I am afraid there isn't any doubt about it," Hunterleys declared. "Of
course, we've been at a fearful disadvantage. Roche was the only man out
here upon whom I could rely. Now they've accounted for him, we've
scarcely a chance of getting at the truth."

Mr. Simpson was gloomily silent for some moments. He was thinking of the
time when he had struck his pencil through a recent Secret Service
estimate.

"Anyhow," Hunterleys went on, "it will be all over in twenty-four hours.
Something will be decided upon--what, I am afraid there is very little
chance of our getting to know. These men will separate--Grex to St.
Petersburg, Selingman to Berlin, Douaille to Paris. Then I think we
shall begin to hear the mutterings of the storm."

"I think," Mr. Simpson intervened, his eyes fixed upon an approaching
figure, "that there is a young lady talking to the maitre d'hotel, who
is trying to attract your attention."

Hunterleys turned around in his chair. It was Felicia who was making her
way towards him. He rose at once to his feet. There was a little murmur
of interest amongst the lunchers as she threaded her way past the
tables. It was not often that an English singer in opera had met with so
great a success. Lady Hunterleys, recognising her as she passed, paused
in the middle of a sentence. Her face hardened. Hunterleys had risen
from his place and was watching Felicia's approach anxiously.

"Is there any news of Sidney?" he asked quickly, as he took her hand.

"Nothing fresh," she answered in a low voice. "I have brought you a
message--from some one else."

He held his chair for her but she shook her head.

"I mustn't stay," she continued. "This is what I wanted to tell you. As
I was crossing the square just now, I recognised the man Frenhofer, from
the Villa Mimosa. Directly he saw me he came across the road. He was
looking for one of us. He dared not come to the villa, he declares, for
fear of being watched. He has something to tell you."

"Where can I find him?" Hunterleys asked.

"He has gone to a little bar in the Rue de Chaussures, the Bar de
Montmartre it is called. He is waiting there for you now."

"You must stay and have some lunch," Hunterleys begged. "I will come
back."

She shook her head.

"I have just been across to the Opera House," she explained, "to enquire
about some properties for to-night. I have had all the lunch I want and
I am on my way to the hospital now again. I came here on the chance of
finding you. They told me at the Hotel de Paris that you were lunching
out."

Hunterleys turned and whispered to Simpson.

"This is very important," he said. "It concerns the affair in which we
are interested. Linger over your coffee and I will return."

Mr. Simpson nodded and Hunterleys left the restaurant with Felicia. His
wife, at whom he glanced for a moment, kept her head averted. She was
whispering in the ear of the gallant Monsieur Douaille. Selingman,
catching Draconmeyer's eye, winked at him solemnly.

"You have all the luck, my silent friend," he murmured.




XXIII

THE FATES ARE KIND


The Bar de Montmartre was many steps under the level of the street,
dark, smelly, and dilapidated. Its only occupants were a handful of
drivers from the carriage-stand opposite, who stared at Hunterleys in
amazement as he entered, and then rushed forward, almost in a body, to
offer their services. The man behind the bar, however, who had evidently
been forewarned, intervened with a few sharp words, and, lifting the
flap of the counter, ushered Hunterleys into a little room beyond.
Frenhofer was engaged there in amiable badinage with a young lady who
promptly disappeared at Hunterleys' entrance. Frenhofer bowed
respectfully.

"I must apologise," he said, "for bringing monsieur to such a place. It
is near the end now, and with Monsieur Roche in the hospital I ventured
to address myself to monsieur direct. Here I have the right to enter. I
make my suit to the daughter of the proprietor in order to have a safe
rendezvous when necessary. It is well that monsieur has come quickly. I
have tidings. I can disclose to monsieur the meeting-place for to-night.
If monsieur has fortune and the wit to make use of it, the opportunity I
shall give him is a great one. But pardon me. Before we talk business we
must order something."

He touched the bell. The proprietor himself thrust in his head,
bullet-shaped, with black moustache and unshaven chin. He wore no
collar, and the remainder of his apparel was negligible.

"A bottle of your best brandy," Frenhofer ordered. "The best, mind, Pere
Hanaut."

The man's acquiescence was as amiable as nature would permit.

"Monsieur will excuse me," Frenhofer went on, as the door was once more
closed, "but these people have their little ways. To sell a whole bottle
of brandy at five times its value, is to Monsieur le Proprietaire more
agreeable than to offer him rent for the hire of his room. He is outside
all the things in which we are concerned. He believes--pardon me,
monsieur--that we are engaged in a little smuggling transaction.
Monsieur Roche and I have used this place frequently."

"He can believe what he likes," Hunterleys replied, "so long as he keeps
his mouth shut."

The brandy was brought--and three glasses. Frenhofer promptly took the
hint and, filling one to the brim, held it out to the landlord.

"You will drink our health, Pere Hanaut--my health and the health of
monsieur here, and the health of the fair Annette. Incidentally, you
will drink also to the success of the little scheme which monsieur and I
are planning."

"In such brandy," the proprietor declared hoarsely, "I would drink to
the devil himself!"

He threw back his head and the contents of his glass vanished. He set it
down with a little smack of the lips. Once more he looked at the bottle.
Frenhofer filled up his glass, but motioned to the door with his head.

"You will excuse us, dear friend," he begged, laying his hand
persuasively upon the other's shoulder. "Monsieur and I have little
enough of time."

The landlord withdrew. Frenhofer walked around the little apartment.
Their privacy was certainly assured.

"Monsieur," he announced, turning to Hunterleys, "there has been a great
discussion as to the next meeting-place between our friends--the next,
which will be also the last. They are safe enough in reality at the
villa, but Monsieur Douaille is nervous. The affair of last night
terrified him. The reason for these things I, of course, know nothing
of, but it seems that Monsieur Douaille is very anxious indeed to keep
his association with my august master and Herr Selingman as secret as
possible. He has declined most positively to set foot again within the
Villa Mimosa. Many plans have been suggested. This is the one adopted.
For some weeks a German down in Monaco, a shipping agent, has had a
yacht in the harbour for hire. He has approached Mr. Grex several times,
not knowing his identity; ignorant, indeed, of the fact that the Grand
Duke himself possesses one of the finest yachts afloat. However, that is
nothing. Mr. Grex thought suddenly of the yacht. He suggested it to the
others. They were enthusiastic. The yacht is to be hired for a week, or
longer if necessary, and used only to-night. Behold the wonderful
good-fortune of the affair! It is I who have been selected by my master
to proceed to Monaco to make arrangements with the German, Herr Schwann.
I am on my way there at the moment."

"A yacht?" Hunterleys repeated.

"There are wonderful things to be thought of," Frenhofer asserted
eagerly. "Consider, monsieur! The yacht of this man Schwann has never
been seen by my master. Consider, too, that aboard her there must be a
dozen hiding-places. The crew has been brought together from anywhere.
They can be bought to a man. There is only one point, monsieur, which
should be arranged before I enter upon this last and, for me, most
troublesome and dangerous enterprise."

"And that?" Hunterleys enquired.

"My own position," Frenhofer declared solemnly. "I am not greedy or
covetous. My ambitions have long been fixed. To serve an Imperial
Russian nobleman has been no pleasure for me. St. Petersburg has been a
prison. I have been moved to the right or to the left as a machine. It
is as a machine only I have lived. Always I have longed for Paris. So
month by month I have saved. After to-night I must leave my master's
employ. The risk will be too great if monsieur indeed accepts my
proposition and carries it out. I need but a matter of ten thousand
francs to complete my savings."

The man's white face shone eagerly in the dim light of the gloomy little
apartment. His eyes glittered. He waited almost breathlessly.

"Frenhofer," Hunterleys said slowly, "so far as I have been concerned
indirectly in these negotiations with you, my instructions to my agent
have been simple and definite. We have never haggled. Your name was
known to me eight years ago, when you served us in St. Petersburg and
served us well. You have done the same thing now and you have behaved
with rare intelligence. Within the course of an hour I shall transfer
ten thousand francs to the account of Francois Frenhofer at the English
Bank here."

The eyes of the man seemed suddenly like pinpricks of fire.

"Monsieur is a prince," he murmured. "And now for the further details.
If monsieur would run the risk, I would suggest that he accompanies me
to the office of this man Schwann."

Hunterleys made no immediate reply. He was walking up and down the
narrow apartment. A brilliant idea had taken possession of him. The more
he thought of it, the more feasible it became.

"Frenhofer," he said at last, "I have a scheme of my own. You are sure
that Mr. Grex has never seen this yacht?"

"He has never set eyes upon it, monsieur, save to try and single it out
with his field-glasses from the balcony of the villa."

"And he is to board it to-night?"

"At ten o'clock to-night, monsieur, it is to lie off the Villa Mimosa. A
pinnace is to fetch Mr. Grex and his friends on board from the private
landing-stage of the Villa Mimosa."

Hunterleys nodded thoughtfully.

"Frenhofer," he explained, "my scheme is this. A friend of mine has a
yacht in the harbour. I believe that he would lend it to me. Why should
we not substitute it for the yacht your master imagines that he is
hiring? If so, all difficulties as to placing whom I desire on board and
secreting them are over."

"It is a great scheme," Frenhofer assented, "but supposing my master
should choose to telephone some small detail to the office of the man
Schwann?"

"You must hire the yacht of Schwann, just as you were instructed,"
Hunterleys pointed out. "You must give orders, though, that it is not to
leave the harbour until telephoned for. Then it will be the yacht which
I shall borrow which will lie off the Villa Mimosa to-night."

"It is admirable," Frenhofer declared. "The more one thinks of it, the
more one appreciates. This yacht of Schwann's--the _Christable_, he
calls it--was fitted out by a millionaire. My master will be surprised
at nothing in the way of luxury."

"Tell me again," Hunterleys asked, "at what hour is it to be off the
Villa Mimosa?"

"At ten o'clock," Frenhofer replied. "A pinnace is to be at the
landing-stage of the villa at that time. Mr. Grex, Monsieur Douaille,
Herr Selingman, and Mr. Draconmeyer will come on board."

"Very good! Now go on your errand to the man Schwann. You had better
meet me here later in the afternoon--say at four o'clock--and let me
know that all is in order. I will bring you some particulars about my
friend's boat, so that you will know how to answer any questions your
master may put to you."

"It is admirable," Frenhofer repeated enthusiastically. "Monsieur had
better, perhaps, precede me."

Hunterleys walked through the streets back to Ciro's Restaurant, filled
with a new exhilaration. His eyes were bright, his brain was working all
the time. The luncheon-party at the next table were still in the midst
of their meal. Mr. Simpson was smoking a meditative cigarette with his
coffee. Hunterleys resumed his place and ordered coffee for himself.

"I have been to see a poor friend who met with an accident last night,"
he announced, speaking as clearly as possible. "I fear that he is very
ill. That was his sister who fetched me away."

Mr. Simpson nodded sympathetically. Their conversation for a few minutes
was desultory. Then Hunterleys asked for the bill and rose.

"I will take you round to the Club and get your _carte_," he suggested.
"Afterwards, we can spend the afternoon as you choose."

The two men strolled out of the place. It was not until after they had
left the arcade and were actually in the street, that Hunterleys gripped
his companion's arm.

"Simpson," he declared, "the fates have been kind to us. Douaille has a
fit of the nerves. He will go no more to the Villa Mimosa. Seeking about
for the safest meeting-place, Grex has given us a chance. The only one
of his servants who belongs to us is commissioned to hire a yacht on
which they meet to-night."

"A yacht," Mr. Simpson replied, emptily.

"I have a friend," Hunterleys continued, "an American. I am convinced
that he will lend me his yacht, which is lying in the harbour here. We
are going to try and exchange. If we succeed, I shall have the run of
the boat. The crew will be at our command, and I shall get to that
conference myself, somehow or other."

Mr. Simpson felt himself left behind. He could only stare at his
companion.

"Tell me, Sir Henry," he begged, almost pathetically, "have I walked
into an artificial world? Do you mean to tell me seriously that you, a
Member of Parliament, an ex-Minister, are engaged upon a scheme to get
the Grand Duke Augustus and Douaille and Selingman on board a yacht, and
that you are going to be there, concealed, turned into a spy? I can't
keep up with it. As fiction it seems to me to be in the clouds. As
truth, why, my understanding turns and mocks me. You are talking
fairy-tales."

Hunterleys smiled tolerantly.

"The man in the street knows very little of the real happenings in
life," he pronounced. "The truth has a queer way sometimes of spreading
itself out into the realms of fiction. Come across here with me to the
hotel. I have got to move heaven and earth to find my friend."

"Do with me as you like," Mr. Simpson sighed resignedly. "In a plain
political discussion, or an argument with Monsieur Douaille--well, I am
ready to bear my part. But this sort of thing lifts me off my feet. I
can only trot along at your heels."

They entered the Hotel de Paris. Hunterleys made a few breathless
enquiries. Nothing, alas! was known of Mr. Richard Lane. He came back,
frowning, to the steps of the hotel.

"If he is up playing golf at La Turbie," Hunterleys muttered, "we shall
barely have time."

A reception clerk tapped him on the shoulder. He turned abruptly around.

"I have just made an enquiry of the floor waiter," the clerk announced.
"He believes that Mr. Lane is still in his room."

Hunterleys thanked the man and hurried to the lift. In a few moments he
was knocking at the door of Lane's rooms. His heart gave a great jump as
a familiar voice bade him enter. He stepped inside and closed the door
behind him. Richard, in light blue pyjamas, sat up in bed and looked at
his visitor with a huge yawn.

"Say, old chap, are you in a hurry or anything?" he demanded.

"Do you know the time?" Hunterleys asked.

"No idea," the other replied. "The valet called me at eight. I told him
I'd shoot him if he disturbed me again."

"It's nearly three o'clock!" Hunterleys declared impressively.

"Can't help it," Richard yawned, throwing off the bed-clothes and
sitting on the edge of the bed. "I am young and delicate and I need my
rest. Seriously, Hunterleys," he added, "you take a chap out and make
him drive you at sixty miles an hour all through the night, you keep him
at it till nearly six in the morning, and you seem to think it a tragedy
to find him in bed at three o'clock in the afternoon. Hang it, I've only
had eight hours' sleep!"

"I don't care how long you've had," Hunterleys rejoined. "I am only too
thankful to find you. Now listen. Is your brain working? Can you talk
seriously?"

"I guess so."

"You remember our talk last night?"

"Every word of it."

"The time has come," Hunterleys continued,--"your time, I mean. You said
that if you could take a hand, you'd do it. I am here to beg for your
help."

"You needn't waste your breath doing that," Richard answered firmly.
"I'm your man. Go on."

"Listen," Hunterleys proceeded. "Is your yacht in commission?"

"Ready to sail at ten minutes' notice," the young man assured him
emphatically, "victualled and coaled to the eyelids. To tell you the
truth, I have some idea of abducting Fedora to-day or to-morrow."

"You'll have to postpone that," Hunterleys told him. "I want to borrow
the yacht."

"She's yours," Richard assented promptly. "I'll give you a note to the
captain."

"Look here, I want you to understand this clearly," Hunterleys went on.
"If you lend me the _Minnehaha_, well, you commit yourself a bit. You
see, it's like this. I've one man of my own in Grex's household. He came
to me this morning. Monsieur Douaille objects to cross again the
threshold of the Villa Mimosa. He fears the English newspapers. There
has been a long discussion as to the next meeting-place. Grex suggested
a yacht. To that they all agreed. There is a man named Schwann down in
Monaco has a yacht for hire. Mr. Grex knows about it and he has sent the
man I spoke of into Monaco this afternoon to hire it. They are all going
to embark at ten o'clock to-night. They are going to hold their meeting
in the cabin."

Lane whistled softly. He was wide awake now.

"Go on," he murmured. "Go on. Say, this is great!"

"I want," Hunterleys explained, "your yacht to take the place of the
other. I want it to be off the Villa Mimosa at ten o'clock to-night,
your pinnace to be at the landing-stage of the villa to bring Mr. Grex
and his friends on board. I want you to haul down your American flag,
keep your American sailors out of sight, cover up the Stars and Stripes
in your cabin, have only your foreign stewards on show. Schwann's yacht
is a costly one. No one will know the difference. You must get up now
and show me over the boat. I have to scheme, somehow or other, how we
can hide ourselves on it so that I can overhear the end of this plot."

The face of Richard Lane was like the face of an ingenuous boy who sees
suddenly a Paradise of sport stretched out before him. His mouth was
open, his eyes gleaming.

"Gee, but this is glorious!" he exclaimed. "I'm with you all the way.
Why, it's wonderful, man! It's a chapter from the Arabian Nights over
again!"

He leapt to his feet and rang the bell furiously. Then he rushed to the
telephone.

"Blue serge clothes," he ordered the valet. "Get my bath ready."

"Any breakfast, monsieur?"

"Oh, breakfast be hanged! No, wait a moment. Get me some coffee and a
roll. I'll take it while I dress. Hurry up!... Yes, is that the enquiry
office? This is Mr. Lane. Send round to my chauffeur at the garage at
once and tell him that I want the car at the door in a quarter of an
hour. Righto! ... Sit down, Hunterleys. Smoke or do whatever you want
to. We'll be off to the yacht in no time."

Hunterleys clapped the young giant on the shoulders as he rushed through
to the bathroom.

"You're a brick, Richard," he declared. "I'll wait for you down in the
hall. I've a pal there."

"I'll be down in twenty minutes or earlier," Lane promised. "What a
lark!"




XXIV

COFFEE FOR ONE ONLY


The breaking up of Mr. Grex's luncheon-party was the signal for a
certain amount of man[oe]uvring on the part of one or two of his guests.
Monsieur Douaille, for instance, was anxious to remain the escort of
Lady Hunterleys, whose plans for the afternoon he had ascertained were
unformed. Mr. Grex was anxious to keep apart his daughter and Lady
Weybourne, whose relationship to Richard Lane he had only just
apprehended; while he himself desired a little quiet conversation with
Monsieur Douaille before they paid the visit which had been arranged for
to the Club and the Casino. In the end, Mr. Grex was both successful and
unsuccessful. He carried off Monsieur Douaille for a short ride in his
automobile, but was forced to leave his daughter and Lady Weybourne
alone. Draconmeyer, who had been awaiting his opportunity, remained by
Lady Hunterleys' side.

"I wonder," he asked, "whether you would step in for a few minutes and
see Linda?"

She had been looking at the table where her husband and his companion
had been seated. Draconmeyer's voice seemed to bring her back to a
present not altogether agreeable.

"I am going back to my room for a little time," she replied. "I will
call in and see Linda first, if you like."

They left the restaurant together and strolled across the Square to the
Hotel de Paris, ascended in the lift, and made their way to
Draconmeyer's suite of rooms in a silence which was almost unbroken.
When they entered the large salon with its French-windows and balcony,
they found the apartment deserted. Violet looked questioningly at her
companion. He closed the door behind him and nodded.

"Yes," he admitted, "my message was a subterfuge. I have sent Linda over
to Mentone with her nurse. She will not be back until late in the
afternoon. This is the opportunity for which I have been waiting."

She showed no signs of anger or, indeed, disturbance of any sort. She
laid her tiny white silk parasol upon the table and glanced at him
coolly.

"Well," she said, "you have your way, then. I am here."

Draconmeyer looked at her long and anxiously. Skilled though he was in
physiognomy, closely though he had watched, for many months, the lights
and shades, the emotional changes in her expression, he was yet, at that
moment, completely puzzled. She was not angry. Her attitude seemed to
be, in a sense, passive. Yet what did passivity mean? Was it
resignation, consent, or was it simply the armour of normal resistance
in which she had clothed herself? Was he wise, after all, to risk
everything? Then, as he looked at her, as he realised her close and
wonderful presence, he suddenly told himself that it was worth while
risking even Heaven in the future for the joy of holding her for once in
his arms. She had never seemed to him so maddeningly beautiful as at
that moment. It was one of the hottest days of the season and she was
wearing a gown of white muslin, curiously simple, enhancing, somehow or
other, her fascinating slimness, a slimness which had nothing to do with
angularity but possessed its own soft and graceful curves. Her eyes were
bluer even than her turquoise brooch or the gentians in her hat. And
while his heart was aching and throbbing with doubts and hopes, she
suddenly smiled at him.

"I am going to sit down," she announced carelessly. "Please say to me
just what is in your mind, without reserve. It will be better."

She threw herself into a low chair near the window. Her hands were
folded in her lap. Her eyes, for some reason, were fixed upon her
wedding ring. Swift to notice even her slightest action, he frowned as
he discerned the direction of her gaze.

"Violet," he said, "I think that you are right. I think that the time
has come when I must tell you what is in my mind."

She raised her eyebrows slightly at the sound of her Christian name. He
moved over and stood by her chair.

"For a good many years," he began slowly, "I have been a man with a
purpose. When it first came into my mind--not willingly--its
accomplishment seemed utterly hopeless. Still, it was there. Strong man
though I am, I could not root it out. I waited. There was nothing else
to do but wait. From that moment my life was divided. My whole-soul
devotion to worldly affairs was severed. I had one dream that was more
wonderful to me, even, than complete success in the great undertaking
which brought me to London. That dream was connected with you, Violet."

She moved a little uneasily, as though the repetition of her Christian
name grated. This time, however, he was rapt in his subject.

"I won't make excuses," he went on. "You know what Linda is--what she
has been for ten years. I have tried to be kind to her. As to love, I
never had any. Ours was an alliance between two great monied families,
arranged for us, acquiesced in by both of us as a matter of course. It
seemed to me in those days the most natural and satisfactory form of
marriage. I looked upon myself as others have thought me--a cold,
bloodless man of figures and ambition. It is you who have taught me that
I have as much sentiment and more than other men, a heart and desires
which have made life sometimes hell and sometimes paradise. For two
years I have struggled. Life with me has been a sort of passionate
compromise. For the joy of seeing you sometimes, of listening to you and
watching you, I have borne the agony of having you leave me to take your
place with another man. You don't quite know what that meant, and I am
not going to tell you, but always I have hoped and hoped."

"And now," she said, looking at him, "I owe you four thousand pounds and
you think, perhaps, that your time has come to speak?"

He shivered as though she had struck him a blow.

"You think," he exclaimed, "that I am a man of pounds, shillings, and
pence! Is it my fault that you owe me money?"

He snatched her cheques from his inner pocket and ripped them in pieces,
lit a match and watched them while they smouldered away. She, too,
watched with emotionless face.

"Do you think that I want to buy you?" he demanded. "There! You are free
from your money claims. You can leave my room this moment, if you will,
and owe me nothing."

She made no movement, yet he was vaguely disturbed by a sense of having
made but little progress, a terrible sense of impending failure. His
fingers began to tremble, his face was the face of a man stretched upon
the rack.

"Perhaps those words of mine were false," he went on. "Perhaps, in a
sense, I do want to buy you, buy the little kindnesses that go with
affection, buy your kind words, the touch sometimes of your fingers, the
pleasant sense of companionship I feel when I am with you. I know how
proud you are. I know how virtuous you are. I know that it's there in
your blood, the Puritan instinct, the craving for the one man to whom
you have given yourself, the involuntary shrinking from the touch of any
other. Good women are like that--wives or mistresses. Mind, in a sense
it's narrow; in a sense it's splendid. Listen to me. I don't want to
declare war against that instinct--yet. I can't. Perhaps, even now, I
have spoken too soon, craved too soon for the little I do ask. Yet God
knows I can keep the seal upon my lips no longer! Don't let us
misunderstand one another for the sake of using plain words. I am not
asking you to be my mistress. I ask you, on my knees, to take from me
what makes life brighter for you. I ask you for the other things
only--for your confidence, for your affection, your companionship. I ask
to see you every day that it is possible, to know that you are wearing
my gifts, surrounded by my flowers, the rough places in your life made
smooth by my efforts. I am your suppliant, Violet. I ask only for the
crumbs that fall from your table, so long as no other man sits by your
side. Violet, can't you give me as much as this?"

His hand, hot and trembling, sought hers, touched and gripped it. She
drew her fingers away. It was curious how in those few moments she
seemed to be gifted with an immense clear-sightedness. She knew very
well that nothing about the man was honest save the passion of which he
did not speak. She rose to her feet.

"Well," she said, "I have listened to you very patiently. If I owe you
any excuse for having appeared to encourage any one of those thoughts of
which you speak, here it is. I am like thousands of other women. I
absolutely don't know until the time comes what sort of a creature I am,
how I shall be moved to act under certain circumstances. I tried to
think last night. I couldn't. I felt that I had gone half-way. I had
taken your money. I had taken it, too, understanding what it means to be
in a man's debt. And still I waited. And now I know. I won't even
question your sincerity. I won't even suggest that you would not be
content with what you ask for--"

"I have sworn it!" he interrupted hoarsely. "To be your favoured friend,
to be allowed near you--your guardian, if you will--"

The words failed him. Something in her face checked his eloquence.

"I can tell you this now and for always," she continued. "I have nothing
to give you. What you ask for is just as impossible as though you were
to walk in your picture gallery and kneel before your great masterpiece
and beg Beatrice herself to step down from the canvas. I began to wonder
yesterday," she went on, rising abruptly and moving across the room,
"whether I really was that sort of woman. With your money in my pocket
and the gambling fever in my pulses, I began even to believe it. And now
I know that I am not. Good-bye, Mr. Draconmeyer. I don't blame you. On
the whole, perhaps, you have behaved quite well. I think that you have
chosen to behave well because that wonderful brain of yours told you
that it gave you the best chance. That doesn't really matter, though."

He took a quick, almost a threatening step towards her. His face was
dark with all the passions which had preyed upon the man.

"There is a man's last resource," he muttered thickly.

"And there is a woman's answer to it," she replied, her finger suddenly
resting upon an unsuspected bell in the wall.

They both heard its summons. Footsteps came hurrying along the corridor.
Draconmeyer turned his head away, struggling to compose himself. A
waiter entered. Lady Hunterleys picked up her parasol and moved towards
the door. The man stood on one side with a bow.

"Here is the waiter you rang for, Mr. Draconmeyer," she remarked,
looking over his shoulder. "Wasn't it coffee you wanted? Tell Linda I'll
hope to see her sometime this evening."

She strolled away. The waiter remained patiently upon the threshold.

"Coffee for one or two, sir?" he enquired.

Mr. Draconmeyer struggled for a moment against a torrent of words which
scorched his lips. In the end, however, he triumphed.

"For one, with cream," he ordered.




XXV

A NEW MAP OF THE EARTH


Selingman, who was leaning back in a leather-padded chair and smoking a
very excellent cigar, looked around at his companions with a smile of
complete approval.

"Our host," he declared, bowing to Mr. Grex, "has surpassed himself. For
a hired yacht I have seen nothing more magnificent. A Cabinet Moselle,
Flor de Cuba cigars, the best of company, and an isolation beyond all
question. What place could suit us better?"

There was a little murmur of assent. The four men were seated together
in the wonderfully decorated saloon of what was, beyond doubt, a most
luxurious yacht. Through the open porthole were visible, every few
moments, as the yacht rose and sank on the swell, the long line of
lights which fringed the shore between Monte Carlo and Mentone; the
mountains beyond, with tiny lights flickering like spangles in a black
mantle of darkness; and further round still, the stream of light from
the Casino, reflected far and wide upon the black waters.

"None," Mr. Grex asserted confidently. "We are at least beyond reach of
these bungling English spies. There is no further fear of eavesdroppers.
We are entirely alone. Each may speak his own mind. There is nothing to
be feared in the way of interruption. I trust, Monsieur Douaille, that
you appreciate the altered circumstances."

Monsieur Douaille, who was looking very much more at his ease, assented
without hesitation.

"I must confess," he agreed, "that the isolation we now enjoy is, to a
certain extent, reassuring. Here we need no longer whisper. One may
listen carefully. One may weigh well what is said. Sooner or later we
must come to the crucial point. This, if you like, is a game of
make-believe. Then, in make-believe, Germany has offered to restore
Alsace and Lorraine, has offered to hold all French territory as sacred,
provided France allows her to occupy Calais for one year. What is your
object, Herr Selingman? Do you indeed wish to invade England?"

Selingman poured himself out a glass of wine from the bottle which stood
at his elbow.

"Good!" he said. "We have come to plain questions. I answer in plain
speech. I will tell you now, in a few words, all that remains to be
told. Germany has no desire to invade Great Britain. If one may believe
the newspapers, there is scarcely an Englishman alive who would credit
this simple fact, but it is nevertheless true. Commercially, England,
and a certain measure of English prosperity, are necessary to Germany.
Geographically, there are certain risks to be run in an invasion of that
country, which we do not consider worth while. Besides, an invasion,
even a successful one, would result in making an everlasting and a
bitter enemy of Great Britain. We learnt our lesson when we took
territory from France. We do not need to repeat it. Several hundred
thousands of our most worthy citizens are finding an honest and
prosperous living in London. Several thousands of our merchants are in
business there, and prospering. Several hundreds of our shrewdest men of
affairs are making fortunes upon the London Stock Exchange. Therefore,
we do not wish to conquer England. Commercially, that conquest is
already affected. I want you, Monsieur Douaille, to absolutely
understand this, because it may affect your views. What we do require is
to strike a long and lasting blow at the navy of Great Britain. As a
somewhat larger Holland, Great Britain is welcome to a peaceful
existence. When she lords it over the world, talks of an Empire upon
which the sun never sets, then the time arrives when we are forced to
interfere. Great Britain has possessions which she is not strong enough
to hold. Germany is strong enough to wrest them from her, and means to
do so. The English fleet must be destroyed. South Africa, then, will
come to Germany, India to Russia, Egypt to France. The rest follows as a
matter of course."

"And what is the rest?" Monsieur Douaille asked.

Herr Selingman was content no longer to sit in his place. He rose to his
feet. His face had fallen into different lines. His eyes flashed, his
words were inspired.

"The rest," he declared, "is the crux of the whole matter. It is the one
great and settled goal towards which we who have understood have schemed
and fought our way. With the British Navy destroyed, the Monroe Doctrine
is not worth a sheet of writing-paper. South America is Germany's
natural heritage, by every right worth considering. It is our people's
gold which founded the Argentine Republic, the brains of our people
which control its destinies. Our Eldorado is there, Monsieur Douaille.
That is the country which, sooner or later, Germany must possess. We
look nowhere else. We covet no other of our neighbours' possessions.
Only I say that the sooner America makes up her mind to the sacrifice,
the better. Her Monroe Doctrine is all very well for the Northern
States. When she presumes to quote it as a pretext for keeping Germany
from her natural place in South America, she crosses swords with us. Now
you know the truth, and the whole truth. You know, Monsieur Douaille,
what we require from you, and you know your reward. Our host has already
told you, and will tell you again as often as you like, the feeling of
his own country. The Franco-Russian alliance is already doomed. It falls
to pieces through sheer lack of common interests. The entente cordiale
is simply a fetter and a dead weight upon you. Monsieur Douaille, I put
it to you as a man of common sense. Do you think that you, as a
statesman--you see, I will put the burden upon your shoulders, because,
if you choose, you can speak for your country--do you think that you
have a right to refuse from Germany the return of Alsace and Lorraine?
Do you think that you can look your country in the face if you refuse on
her behalf the greatest gift which has ever yet been offered to any
nation--the gift of Egypt? The old alliances are out of date. The
balance of power has shifted. I ask you, Monsieur Douaille, as you value
the prosperity and welfare of your country, to weigh what I have said
and what our great Russian friend has said, word by word. England has
made no sacrifices for you. Why should you sacrifice yourself for her?"

Monsieur Douaille stroked his little grey imperial.

"That is well enough," he muttered, "but without the English Navy the
balance of power upon the Continent is entirely upset."

"The balance of power only according to the present grouping of
interests," Mr. Grex pointed out. "Selingman has shown us how these must
change. Frankly, although no one can fail to realise the immense
importance of South America as a colonising centre, it is my honest
opinion that the nation who scores most by my friend Selingman's plans,
is not Germany but France. Think what it means to her. Instead of being
a secondary Power, she will of her own might absolutely control the
Mediterranean. Egypt, with its vast possibilities, its ever-elastic
boundary, falls to her hand. Malta and Cyprus follow. It is a great
price that Germany is prepared to pay."

Monsieur Douaille was silent for several moments. It was obvious that he
was deeply impressed.

"This is a matter," he said, "which must be considered from many points
of view. Supposing that France were willing to bury the hatchet with
Germany, to remain neutral or to place Calais at Germany's disposal.
Even then, do you suppose, Herr Selingman, that it would be an easy
matter to destroy the British Navy?"

"We have our plans," Selingman declared solemnly. "We know very well
that they can be carried out only at a great loss both of men and ships.
It is a gloomy and terrible task that lies before us, but at the other
end of it is the glory that never fades."

"If America," Douaille remarked, "were to have an inkling of your real
objective, her own fleet would come to the rescue."

"Why should America know of our ultimate aims?" Selingman rejoined. "Her
politicians to-day choose to play the part of the ostrich in the desert.
They take no account, or profess to take no account of European
happenings. They have no Secret Service. Their country is governed from
within for herself only. As for the rest, the bogey of a German invasion
has been flaunted so long in England that few people stop to realise the
absolute futility of such a course. London is already colonised by
Germans--colonised, that is to say, in urban and money-making fashion.
English gold is flowing in a never-ending stream into our country. It
would be the most foolish dream an ambitious statesman could conceive to
lay violent hands upon a land teeming with one's own children. Germany
sees further than this. There are richer prizes across the Atlantic,
richer prizes from every point of view."

"You mentioned South Africa," Monsieur Douaille murmured.

Selingman shrugged his shoulders.

"South Africa will make no nation rich," he replied. "Her own people are
too stubborn and powerful, too rooted to the soil."

Monsieur Douaille for the first time stretched out his hand and drank
some of the wine which stood by his side. His cheeks were very pale. He
had the appearance of a man tortured by conflicting thoughts.

"I should like to ask you, Selingman," he said, "whether you have made
any definite plans for your conflict with the British Navy? I admit that
the days of England's unique greatness are over. She may not be in a
position to-day, as she has been in former years, to fight the world. At
the same time, her one indomitable power is still, whatever people may
say or think, her navy. Only last month the Cabinet of my country were
considering reports from their secret agents and placing them side by
side with known facts, as to the relative strength of your navy and the
navy of Great Britain. On paper it would seem that a German success was
impossible."

Selingman smiled--the convincing smile of a man who sees further than
most men.

"Not under the terms I should propose to you, Monsieur Douaille," he
declared. "Remember that we should hold Calais, and we should be assured
at least of the amiable neutrality of your fleet. We have spoken of
matters so intimate that I do not know whether in this absolute privacy
I should not be justified in going further and disclosing to you our
whole scheme for an attack upon the English Navy. It would need only an
expression of your sympathy with those views which we have discussed, to
induce me to do so."

Monsieur Douaille hesitated for several moments before he replied.

"I am a citizen of France," he said, "an envoy without powers to treat.
My own province is to listen."

"But your personal sympathies?" Selingman persisted.

"I have sometimes thought," Monsieur Douaille confessed, "that the
present grouping of European Powers must gradually change. If your
country, for instance," he added, turning to Mr. Grex, "indeed embraces
the proposals of Herr Selingman, France must of necessity be driven to
reconsider her position towards England. The Anglo-Saxon race may have
to battle then for her very existence. Yet it is always to be remembered
that in the background are the United States of America, possessing
resources and wealth greater than any other country in the universe."

"And it must also be remembered," Selingman proclaimed, in a tone of
ponderous conviction, "that she possesses no adequate means of guarding
them, that she is not a military nation, that she has not the strength
to enforce the carrying out of the Monroe Doctrine. Things were all very
well for her before the days of wireless telegraphy, of aeroplanes and
airships, of super-dreadnoughts, and cruisers with the speed of express
trains. She was too far away to be concerned in European turmoils.
To-day science is annihilating distance. America, leaving out of account
altogether her military impotence, would need a fleet three times her
present strength to enforce the Monroe Doctrine for the remainder--not
of this century but of this decade."

Then the bombshell fell. A strange voice suddenly intervened, a voice
whose American accent seemed more marked than usual. The four men turned
their heads. Selingman sprang to his feet. Mr. Grex's face was marble in
its whiteness. Monsieur Douaille, with a nervous sweep of his right arm,
sent his glass crashing to the floor. They all looked in the same
direction, up to the little music gallery. Leaning over in a careless
attitude, with his arms folded upon the rail, was Richard Lane.

"Say," he begged, "can I take a hand in this little discussion?"




XXVI

CHECKMATE!


Of the four men, Selingman was the first to recover himself.

"Who the hell are you, and how did you get up there?" he roared.

"I am Richard Lane," the young man explained affably, "and there's a way
up from the music-room. You probably didn't notice it. And there's a way
down, as you may perceive," he added, pointing to the spiral staircase.
"I'll join you, if I may."

There was a dead silence as for a moment Richard disappeared and was
seen immediately afterwards descending the round staircase. Mr. Grex
touched Selingman on the arm and whispered in his ear. Selingman nodded.
There were evil things in the faces of both men as Lane approached them.

"Will you kindly explain your presence here at once, sir?" Mr. Grex
ordered.

"I say!" Richard protested. "A joke's a joke, but when you ask a man to
explain his presence on his own boat, you're coming it just a little
thick, eh? To tell you the truth, I had some sort of an idea of asking
you the same question."

"What do you mean--your own boat?" Draconmeyer demanded.

He was, perhaps, the first to realise the situation. Richard thrust his
hands into his pockets and sat upon the edge of the table.

"Seems to me," he remarked, "that you gentlemen have made some sort of a
mistake. Where do you think you are, anyway?"

"On board Schwann's yacht, the _Christabel_," Selingman replied.

Richard shook his head.

"Not a bit of it," he assured them. "This is the steam-yacht,
_Minnehaha_, which brought me over from New York, and of which I am most
assuredly the owner. Now I come to think of it," he went on, "there was
another yacht leaving the harbour at the same time. Can't have happened
that you boarded the wrong boat, eh?"

Mr. Grex was icily calm, but there was menace of the most dangerous sort
in his look and manner.

"Nothing of that sort was possible," he declared, "as you are, without
doubt, perfectly well aware. It appears to me that this is a deliberate
plot. The yacht which I and my friends thought that we were boarding
to-night was the _Christabel_, which my servant had instructions to hire
from Schwann of Monaco. I await some explanation from you, sir, as to
your purpose in sending your pinnace to the landing-stage of the Villa
Mimosa and deliberately misleading us as to our destination?"

"Well, I don't know that I've got much to say about that," Richard
replied easily.

"You are offering us no explanation?" Selingman demanded.

"None," Richard assented coolly.

Selingman suddenly struck the table with his clenched fist.

"You were not alone up in that gallery!"

"Getting warm, aren't you?" Richard murmured.

Selingman turned to Grex.

"This young man is Hunterleys' friend. They've fixed this up between
them. Listen!"

A door slammed above their heads. Some one had left the music gallery.

"Hunterleys himself!" Selingman cried.

"Sure!" Richard assented. "Bright fellow, Selingman," he continued
amiably. "I wouldn't try that on, if I were you," he added, turning to
Mr. Grex, whose hand was slowly stealing from the back of his coat.
"That sort of thing doesn't do, nowadays. Revolvers belong to the last
decade of intrigue. You're a bit out of date with that little weapon.
Don't be foolish. I am not angry with any of you. I am willing to take
this little joke pleasantly, but----"

He raised a whistle to his lips and blew it. The door at the further end
of the saloon was opened as though by magic. A steward in the yacht's
uniform appeared. From outside was visible a very formidable line of
sailors. Grex, with a swift gesture, slipped something back into his
pocket, something which glittered like silver.

"Serve some champagne, Reynolds," Richard ordered the steward who had
come hurrying in, "and bring some cigars."

The man withdrew. Richard seated himself once more upon the table,
clasping one knee.

"Look here," he said, "I'll be frank with you. I came into this little
affair for the sake of a pal. It was only by accident that I found my
way up yonder--more to look after him than anything. I never imagined
that you would have anything to say that was interesting to me. Seems I
was wrong, though. You've got things very nicely worked out, Mr.
Selingman."

Selingman glared at the young man but said nothing. The others, too,
were all remarkably bereft of words.

"Don't mind my staying for a little chat, do you?" Richard continued
pleasantly. "You see, I am an American and I am kind of interested in
the latter portion of what you had to say. I dare say you're quite right
in some respects. We are a trifle too commercial and a trifle too
cocksure. You see, things have always gone our way. All the same, we've
got the stuff, you know. Just consider this. If I thought there was any
real need for it, and I begin to think that perhaps there may be, I
should be ready to present the United States with a Dreadnought
to-morrow, and I don't know that I should need to spend very much less
myself. And," he went on, "there are thirty or forty others who could
and would do the same. Tidy little fleet we should soon have, you see,
without a penny of taxation. Of course, I know we would need the men,
but we've a grand reserve to draw upon in the West. They are not
bothering about the navy in times of peace, but they'd stream into it
fast enough if there were any real need."

The chief steward appeared, followed by two or three of his
subordinates. A tray of wine was placed upon the table. Bottles were
opened, but no one made any attempt to drink. Richard filled his own
glass and motioned the men to withdraw.

"Prefer your own wine?" he remarked. "Well, now, that's too bad. Hope
I'm not boring you?"

No one spoke or moved. Richard settled himself a little more comfortably
upon the table.

"I can't tell you all," he proceeded, "how interested I have been,
listening up there. Quite a gift of putting things clearly, if I may be
allowed to say so, you seem to possess, Mr. Selingman. Now here's my
reply as one of the poor Anglo-Saxons from the West who've got to make
room in the best parts of the world for your lubberly German colonists.
If you make a move in the game you've been talking so glibly about, if
my word counts for anything, if my persuasions count for anything--and
I've facts to go on, you know--you'll have the American fleet to deal
with at the same time as the English, and I fancy that will be a trifle
more than you can chew up, eh? I'm going back to America a little
earlier than I anticipated. Of course, they'll laugh at me at first in
Washington. They don't believe much in these round-table conferences and
European plots. But all the same I've got some friends there. We'll try
and remember this amiable little statement of policy of yours, Mr.
Selingman. Nothing like being warned, you know."

Mr. Grex rose from his place.

"Sir," he said, "since we have been and are your unwilling guests, will
you be so good as to arrange for us at once to relieve you of our
presence?"

"Well, I'm not so sure about that," Richard remarked, meditatively. "I
think I'd contribute a good deal to the comfort and happiness of this
generation if I took you all out to sea and dropped you overboard, one
by one."

"As I presume you have no such intention," Mr. Grex persisted, "I repeat
that we should be glad to be allowed to land."

Richard abandoned his indolent posture and stood facing them.

"You came on board, gentlemen, without my invitation," he reminded them.
"You will leave my ship when I choose--and that," he added, "is not just
at present."

"Do you mean that we are to consider ourselves your prisoners?"
Draconmeyer asked, with an acid smile.

"Certainly not--my guests," Richard replied, with a bow. "I can assure
you that it will only be a matter of a few hours."

Monsieur Douaille hammered the table with his fist.

"Young man," he exclaimed, "I leave with you! I insist upon it that I am
permitted to leave. I am not a party to this conference. I am merely a
guest, a listener, here wholly in my private capacity. I will not be
associated with whatever political scandal may arise from this affair. I
demand permission to leave at once."

"Seems to me there's something in what you say," Richard admitted. "Very
well, you can come along. I dare say Hunterleys will be glad to have a
chat with you. As for the rest of you," he concluded, as Monsieur
Douaille rose promptly to his feet, "I have a little business to arrange
on land which I think I could manage better whilst you are at sea. I
shall therefore, gentlemen, wish you good evening. Pray consider my
yacht entirely at your disposal. My stewards will be only too happy to
execute any orders--supper, breakfast, or dinner. You have merely to say
the word."

He turned towards the door, closely followed by Douaille, who, in a
state of great excitement, refused to listen to Selingman's entreaties.

"No, no!" the former objected, shaking his head. "I will not stay. I
will not be associated with this meeting. You are bunglers, all of you.
I came only to listen, on your solemn assurance of entire secrecy. We
are spied upon at the Villa Mimosa, we are made fools of on board this
yacht. No more unofficial meetings for me!"

"Quite right, old fellow," Richard declared, as they passed out and on
to the deck. "Set of wrong 'uns, those chaps, even though Mr. Grex is a
Grand Duke. You know Sir Henry Hunterleys, don't you?"

Hunterleys came forward from the gangway, at the foot of which the
pinnace was waiting.

"We are taking Monsieur Douaille ashore," Richard explained, as the two
men shook hands. "He really doesn't belong to that gang and he wants to
cut adrift. You understand my orders exactly, captain?" he asked, as
they stepped down the iron gangway.

"Perfectly, sir," was the prompt reply. "You may rely upon me. I am
afraid they are beginning to make a noise downstairs already!"

The little pinnace shot out a stream of light across the dark, placid
sea. Douaille was talking earnestly to Hunterleys.

"Pleasantest few minutes I ever spent in my life," Richard murmured, as
he took out his cigarette case.




XXVII

AN AMAZING ELOPEMENT


The sun was shining brilliantly and the sky was cloudless as Richard
turned his automobile into the grounds of the Villa Mimosa, soon after
nine o'clock on the following morning. The yellow-blossomed trees,
slightly stirred by the west wind, formed a golden arch across the
winding avenue. The air was sweet, almost faint with perfume. On the
terrace, holding a pair of field-glasses in her hand and gazing intently
out to sea, was Fedora. At the sound of the motor-horn she turned
quickly. She looked at the visitor in surprise. A shade of pink was in
her face. Lane brought the car to a standstill, jumped out and climbed
the steps of the terrace.

"What has brought you here?" she asked, in surprise.

"I have just come to pay you a little visit," he remarked easily. "I was
only afraid you mightn't be up so early."

She bit her lip.

"You have no right to come here at all," she said severely, "and to
present yourself at this hour is unheard of."

"I came early entirely out of consideration for your father," he assured
her.

She frowned.

"My father?" she repeated. "Please explain at once what you mean. My
father is on that yacht and I cannot imagine why he does not return."

"I can tell you," he answered, standing by her side and looking out
seawards. "They are waiting for my orders before they let him off."

She turned her head and looked at him incredulously.

"Explain yourself, please," she insisted.

"With pleasure," he assented. "You see, I just had to make sure of being
allowed to have a few minutes' conversation with you, free from any
interruption. Somehow or other," he added thoughtfully, "I don't believe
your father likes me."

"I do not think," she replied coldly, "that my father has any feelings
about you at all, except that he thinks you are abominably
presumptuous."

"Because I want to marry you?"

She stamped with her foot upon the ground.

"Please do not say such absurd things! Explain to me at once what you
mean by saying that my father is being kept there by your orders."

"I'll try," Lane answered. "He boarded that yacht last night in mistake.
He thought that it was a hired one, but it isn't. It's mine. I found him
there last night, entertaining a little party of his friends in the
saloon. They seemed quite comfortable, so I begged them to remain on as
my guests for a short time."

"To remain?" she murmured, bewildered. "For how long?"

"Until you've just read this through and thought it over."

He passed her a document which he had drawn from his pocket. She took it
from him wonderingly. When she had read a few lines, the colour came
streaming into her cheeks. She threw it to the ground. He picked it up
and replaced it in his pocket.

"But it is preposterous!" she cried. "That is a marriage license!"

"That's precisely what it is," he admitted. "I thought we'd be married
at Nice. My sister is waiting to go along with us. I said we'd pick her
up at the Hotel de Paris."

Severe critics of her undoubted beauty had ventured at times to say that
Fedora's face lacked expression. There was, at that moment, no room for
any such criticism. Amazement struggled with indignation in her eyes.
Her lips were quivering, her breath was coming quickly.

"Do you mean--have you given her or any one to understand that there was
any likelihood of my consenting to such an absurd scheme?"

"I only told her what I hoped," he said quietly. "That is all I dared
say even to myself. But I want you to listen to me."

His voice had grown softer. She turned her head and looked at him. He
was much taller than she was, and in his grey tweed suit, his head a
little thrown back, his straw hat clasped in his hands behind him, his
clear grey eyes full of serious purpose, he was certainly not an
unattractive figure to look upon. Unconsciously she found herself
comparing him once more with the men of her world, found herself
realising, even against her will, the charm of his naive and dogged
honesty, his youth, his tenacity of purpose. She had never been made
love to like this before.

"Please listen," he begged. "I am afraid that your father must be in a
tearing rage by now, but it can't be helped. He is out there and he
hasn't got an earthly chance of getting back until I give the word.
We've got plenty of time to reach Nice before he can land. I just want
you to realise, Fedora, that you are your own mistress. You can make or
spoil your own life. No one else has any right to interfere. Have you
ever seen any one yet, back in your own country, amongst your own
people, whom you really felt that you cared for--who you really believed
would be willing to lay down his life to make you happy?"

"No," she confessed simply, "I do not know that I have. Our men are not
like that."

"It is because," he went on, "there is no one back there who cares as I
do. I have spent some years of my life looking--quite unconsciously, but
looking all the same--for some one like you. Now I have found you I am
glad I have waited. There couldn't be any one else. There never could
be, Fedora. I love you just in the way a man does love once in his life,
if he's lucky. It's a queer sort of feeling, you know," he continued,
leaning a little towards her. "It makes me quite sure that I could make
you happy. It makes me quite sure that if you'll give me your hand and
trust me, and leave everything to me, you'll have just the things in
life that women want. Won't you be brave, Fedora? There are some things
to break through, I know, but they don't amount to much--they don't,
really. And I love you, you know. You can't imagine yet what a wonderful
difference that makes. You'll find out and you'll be glad."

She stood quite still. Her eyes were still fixed seawards, but she was
looking beyond the yacht, now, to the dim line where sky and sea seemed
to meet. The vision of her past days seemed to be drawn out before her,
a little monotonous, a little wearisome even in their splendour, more
than a little empty. And underneath it all she was listening to the new
music, and her heart was telling her the truth.

"You don't need to make any plans," he said softly. "Go and put on your
hat and something to wear motoring. Bring a dressing-bag, if you like.
Flossie is waiting for us and she is rather a dear. You can leave
everything else to me."

She looked timidly into his eyes. A new feeling was upon her. She gave
him her hand almost shyly. Her voice trembled.

"If I come," she whispered, "you are quite sure that you mean it all?
You are quite sure that you will not change?"

He raised her hand to his lips.

"Not in this world, dear," he answered, with sublime confidence, "nor
any other!"

She stole away from him. He was left alone upon the terrace, alone, but
with the exquisite conviction of her return, promised in that last
half-tremulous, half-smiling look over her shoulder. Then suddenly life
seemed to come to him with a rush, a new life, filled with a new
splendour. He was almost humbly conscious of bigger things than he had
ever realised, a nearness to the clouds, a wonderful, thrilling sense of
complete and absolute happiness.... Reluctantly he came back to earth.
His thoughts became practical. He went to the back of his car, drew out
a rocket on a stick and thrust it firmly into the lawn. Then he started
his engine and almost immediately afterwards she came. She was wearing a
white silk motor-coat and a thick veil. Behind her came a bewildered
French maid, carrying wraps, and a man-servant with a heavy
dressing-case. In silence these things were stowed away. She took her
place in the car. Lane struck a match and stepped on to the lawn.

"Don't be frightened," he said. "Here goes!"

A rocket soared up into the sky. Then he seated himself beside her and
they glided off.

"That means," he explained, "that they'll let your father and the others
off in two hours. Give us plenty of time to get to Nice. Have you--left
any word for him?"

"I have left a very short message," she answered, "to say that I was
going to marry you. He will never forgive me, and I feel very wicked and
very ungrateful."

"Anything else?" he whispered, leaning a little towards her.

She sighed.

"And very happy," she murmured.




XXVIII

HONEYMOONING


Hunterleys saw the Right Honourable Meredith Simpson and Monsieur
Douaille off to Paris early that morning. Then he called round at the
hospital to find that Sidney Roche was out of danger, and went on to the
villa with the good news. On his way back he stayed chatting with the
bank manager until rather later than usual, and afterwards strolled on
to the Terrace, where he looked with some eagerness towards a certain
point in the bay. The _Minnehaha_ had departed. Mr. Grex and his
friends, then, had been set free. Hunterleys returned to the hotel
thoughtfully. At the entrance he came across two or three trunks being
wheeled out, which seemed to him somehow familiar. He stopped to look at
the initials. They were his wife's.

"Is Lady Hunterleys leaving to-day?" he asked the luggage-porter.

"By the evening train, sir," the man announced. "She would have caught
the _Cote d'Azur_ this morning but there was no place on the train."

Hunterleys was perplexed. Some time after luncheon he enquired for Lady
Hunterleys and found that she was not in the hotel. A reception clerk
thought that he had seen her go through on her way to the Sporting Club.
Hunterleys, after some moments of indecision, followed her. He was
puzzled at her impending departure, unable to account for it. The
Draconmeyers, he knew, proposed to stay for another month. He walked
thoughtfully along the private way and climbed the stairs into the Club.
He looked for his wife in her usual place. She was not there. He made a
little promenade of the rooms and eventually he found her amongst the
spectators around the baccarat table. He approached her at once.

"You are not playing?"

She started at the sound of his voice. She was dressed very simply in
travelling clothes, and there were lines under her eyes, as though she
were fatigued.

"No," she admitted, "I am not playing."

"I understood in the hotel," he continued, "that you were leaving
to-day."

"I am going back to England," she announced. "It does not amuse me here
any longer."

He realised at once that something had happened. A curious sense of
excitement stole into his blood.

"If you are not playing here, will you come and sit down for a few
moments?" he invited. "I should like to talk to you."

She followed him without a word. He led the way to one of the divans in
the roulette room.

"Your favourite place," he remarked, "is occupied."

She nodded.

"I have given up playing," she told him.

He looked at her in some surprise. She drew a little breath and kept her
eyes steadily averted.

"You will probably know sometime or other," she continued, "so I will
tell you now. I have lost four thousand pounds to Mr. Draconmeyer. I am
going back to England to realise my own money, so as to be able to pay
him at once."

"You borrowed four thousand pounds from Mr. Draconmeyer?" he repeated
incredulously.

"Yes! It was very foolish, I know, and I have lost every penny of it. I
am not the first woman, I suppose, who has lost her head at Monte
Carlo," she added, a little defiantly.

"Does Mr. Draconmeyer know that you are leaving?" he asked.

"Not yet," she answered, after a moment's hesitation. "I had an
interview with him yesterday and I realised at once that the money must
be paid, and without delay. I realised, too, that it was better I should
leave Monte Carlo and break off my association with these people for the
present."

In a sense it was a sordid story, yet to Hunterleys her words sounded
like music.

"I am very pleased indeed," he said quietly, "that you feel like that.
Draconmeyer is not a man to whom I should like my wife to owe money for
a moment longer than was absolutely necessary."

"Your estimate of him was correct," she confessed slowly. "I am sorry,
Henry."

He rose suddenly to his feet. An inspiration had seized him.

"Come," he declared, "we will pay Draconmeyer back without sending you
home to sell your securities. Come and stand with me."

She looked at him in amazement.

"Henry!" she exclaimed. "You are not going to play? Don't! Take my
advice and don't!"

He laughed.

"We'll see," he replied confidently. "You wouldn't believe that I was a
fatalist, would you? I am, though. Everything that I had hoped for seems
to be happening to-day. You have found out Draconmeyer, we have
checkmated Mr. Grex, I have drunk the health of Felicia and David
Briston--"

"Felicia and David Briston?" she interrupted quickly. "What do you
mean?"

"You knew, of course, that they were engaged?" he explained. "I called
round at the villa this morning, after I had been to the hospital, and
found them busy fixing the wedding day."

She looked at him vaguely.

"Engaged?" she murmured. "Why, I thought--"

A spot of colour suddenly burned in her cheeks. She was beginning to
understand. It was Draconmeyer who had put those ideas into her head.
Her heart gave a little leap.

"Henry!" she whispered.

He was already at the table, however. He changed five mille notes
deliberately, counted his plaques and turned to her.

"I am going to play on your principle," he declared. "I have always
thought it an interesting one. See, the last number was twenty-two. I am
going to back twenty and all the _carres_."

He covered the board around number twenty. There were a few minutes of
suspense, then the click as the ball fell into the little space.

"_Vingt-huit, noir, passe et pair!_" the croupier announced.

Hunterleys' stake was swept away. He only smiled.

"Our numbers are going to turn up," he insisted cheerfully. "I am
certain of it now. Do you know that this is the first time I have played
since I have been in Monte Carlo?"

She watched him half in fear. This time he staked on twenty-nine, with
the maximum _en plein_ and all the _carres_ and _chevaux_. Again the few
moments of suspense, the click of the ball, the croupier's voice.

_"Vingt-neuf, noir, impair et passe!"_

She clutched at his arm.

"Henry!" she gasped.

He laughed.

"Open your bag," he directed. "We'll soon fill it."

He left his stake untouched. Thirty-one turned up. He won two _carres_
and let the table go once without staking. Ten was the next number.
Immediately he placed the maximum on number fourteen, _carres_ and
_chevaux_. Again the pause, again the croupier's voice.

_"Quatorze rouge, pair et manque!"_

Hunterleys showed no exultation and scarcely any surprise. He gathered
in his winnings and repeated his stake. This time he won one of his
_carres_. The next time _quatorze_ turned up again. For half-an-hour he
continued, following his few chosen numbers according to the run of the
table. At the end of that time Violet's satchel was full and he was
beginning to collect mille notes for his plaques. He made a little
calculation in his mind and decided that he must already have won more
than the necessary amount.

"Our last stake," he remarked coolly.

The preceding number had been twenty-six. He placed the maximum on
twenty-nine, the _carres_, _chevaux_, the column, colour and last dozen.
He felt Violet's fingers clutching his arm. There was a little buzz of
excitement all round the table as the croupier announced the number.

_"Vingt-neuf noir, impair et passe!..."_

They took their winnings into the anteroom beyond, where Hunterleys
ordered tea. There was a little flush in Violet's cheeks. They counted
the money. There was nearly five thousand pounds.

"Henry!" she exclaimed. "I think that that last coup was the most
marvellous win I ever saw!"

"A most opportune one, at any rate," he replied grimly. "Look who is
coming."

Draconmeyer had entered the room, and was peering everywhere as though
in search of some one. He suddenly caught sight of them, hesitated for a
moment and then approached. He addressed himself to Violet.

"I have just seen Linda," he said. "She is broken-hearted at the thought
of your departure."

"I am sorry to leave her," Violet replied, "but I feel that I have
stayed quite long enough in Monte Carlo. By the bye, Mr. Draconmeyer,
there is that little affair of the money you were kind enough to advance
to me."

Draconmeyer stood quite still. He looked from husband to wife.

"Four thousand pounds, my wife tells me," Hunterleys remarked coolly, as
he began to count out the notes. "It is very good of you indeed to have
acted as my wife's banker. Do you mind being paid now? Our movements are
a little uncertain and it will save the trouble of sending you a
cheque."

Draconmeyer laughed. It was not a pleasant laugh, nor was it in the
least mirthful.

"Dear me!" he exclaimed. "I had forgotten that little matter. As you
will, certainly."

He accepted the notes and stuffed them into his pocket.

"By the bye," he continued, "I think that I ought to congratulate you,
Sir Henry. That last little affair of yours was wonderfully
stage-managed. Your country owes you more than it is ever likely to pay.
You have succeeded, at any rate, in delaying the inevitable."

"I trust," Hunterleys enquired politely, "that you were not detained
upon the yacht for very long?"

"We landed at the Villa at twelve o'clock this morning," Draconmeyer
replied. "You know, of course, of the little surprise our young American
friend had prepared for Mr. Grex?"

Hunterleys shook his head.

"I have heard nothing definite."

"He was married to the daughter of the Grand Duke Augustus at midday at
Nice," Draconmeyer announced. "His Serene Highness received a telephone
message only a short time ago."

Violet gave a little cry. She leaned across the table eagerly.

"You mean that they have eloped?"

Draconmeyer assented.

"All Monte Carlo will be talking about it to-morrow," he declared. "The
Grand Duke has been doing all he can to get it hushed up, but it is
useless. I will not detain you any longer. I see that you are about to
have tea."

"We shall meet, perhaps, in London?" Hunterleys remarked, as Draconmeyer
prepared to depart.

Draconmeyer shook his head.

"I think not," he replied. "The doctors have advised me that the climate
of England is bad for my wife's health, and I feel that my own work
there is finished. I have received an offer to go out to South America
for a time. Very likely I shall accept."

He passed on with a final bow. Violet looked across their table and her
eyes shone.

"It seems like a fairy tale, Henry," she whispered. "You don't know what
a load on my mind that money has been, and how I was growing to detest
Mr. Draconmeyer."

He smiled.

"I was rather hating the beast myself," he admitted. "Tell me, what are
your plans, really?"

"I hadn't made any," she confessed, "except to get away as quickly as I
could."

He leaned a little across the table.

"Elopements are rather in the fashion," he said. "What do you think?
Couldn't we have a little dinner at Ciro's and catch the last train to
Nice; have a look at Richard and his wife and then go on to Cannes, and
make our way back to England later?"

She looked at him and his face grew younger. There was something in her
eyes which reminded him of the days which for so many weary months he
had been striving to forget.

"Henry," she murmured, "I have been very foolish. If you can trust me
once more, I think I can promise that I'll never be half so idiotic
again."

He rose to his feet blithely.

"It has been my fault just as much," he declared, "and the fault of
circumstances. I couldn't tell you the whole truth, but there has been a
villainous conspiracy going on here. Draconmeyer, Selingman, and the
Grand Duke were all in it and I have been working like a slave. Now it's
all over, finished this morning on Richard's yacht. We've done what we
could. I'm a free lance now and we'll spend the holidays together."

She gave him her fingers across the table and he held them firmly in
his. Then she, too, rose and they passed out together. There was a
wonderful change in Hunterleys. He seemed to have grown years younger.

"Come," he exclaimed, "they call this the City of Pleasure, but these
are the first happy moments I have spent in it. We'll gamble in
five-franc pieces for an hour or so. Then we'll go back to the hotel and
have our trunks sent down to the station, dine at Ciro's and wire
Richard. Where are you going to stake your money?"

"I think I shall begin with number twenty-nine," she laughed.

       *       *       *       *       *

They lunched with Richard and his wife, a few days later, at the Casino
at Cannes. The change in the two young people was most impressive.
Fedora had lost the dignified aloofness of Monte Carlo. She seemed as
though she had found her girlhood. She was brilliantly, supremely happy.
Richard, on the other hand, was more serious. He took Hunterleys on one
side as they waited for the cars.

"We are on our way to Biarritz," he said, "by easy stages. The yacht
will meet us there and we are going to sail at once for America."

"Fedora doesn't mind?" Hunterleys asked.

"Not in the least," Richard declared exultantly. "She knows what my duty
is, and, Hunterleys, I am going to try and do it. The people over there
may need a lot of convincing, but they are going to hear the truth from
me and have it drummed into them. It's going to be 'Wake up, America!'
as well as 'Wake up, England!'"

"Stick at it, Richard," Hunterleys advised. "Don't mind a little
discouragement. Men who see the truth and aren't afraid to keep on
calling attention to it, get laughed at a great deal. People speak of
them tolerantly, listen to what they say, doubt its reasonableness and
put it at the back of their heads, but in the end it does good. Your
people and mine are slow to believe and slow to understand, but the
truth sinks in if one proclaims it often enough and loudly enough. We
are going through it in our own country just now, with regard to
National Service, for one thing. Here come your cars. You travel in
state, Richard."

The young man laughed good-naturedly.

"There's nothing in life which I could give her that Fedora sha'n't
have," he asserted. "We spent the first two days absolutely alone. Now
her maid and my man come along with the luggage in the heavy car, and we
take the little racer. Jolly hard work they have to keep anywhere near
us, I can tell you. Say, may I make a rather impertinent remark, Sir
Henry?"

"You have earned the right to say anything to me you choose," Hunterleys
replied. "Go ahead."

"Why, it's only this," Richard continued, a little awkwardly. "I have
never seen Lady Hunterleys look half so ripping, and you seem years
younger."

Hunterleys smiled.

"To tell you the truth, I feel it. You see, years ago, when we started
out for our honeymoon, there was a crisis after the first week and we
had to rush back to England. We seem to have forgotten to ever finish
that honeymoon of ours. We are doing it now."

The two women came down the steps, the cynosure of a good many eyes, the
two most beautiful women in the Casino. Richard helped his wife into her
place, wrapped her up and took the steering wheel.

"Hyeres to-night and Marseilles to-morrow," he announced, "Biarritz on
Saturday. We shall stay there for a week, and then--'Wake up, America!'"

The cars glided off. Hunterleys and his wife stood on the steps, waving
their hands.

"Something about those children," Hunterleys declared, as they vanished,
"makes me feel absurdly young. Let's go shopping, Violet. I want to buy
you some flowers and chocolates."

She smiled happily as she took his arm for a moment.

"And then?"

"What would you like to do afterwards?" he asked.

"I think," she replied, leaning towards him, "that I should like to go
to that nice Englishman who lets villas, and find one right at the edge
of the sea, quite hidden, and lock the gates, and give no one our
address, and have you forget for just one month that there was any work
to do in the world, or any one else in it except me."

"Just to make up," he laughed softly.

"Women are like that, you know," she murmured.

"The man's office is this way," Hunterleys said, turning off the main
street.


THE END﻿There are times when I don't know my own strength. Or, at least, the
strength of my advice. And the case of Jason Howley was certainly an
instance of one of those times.

When he came to my office with his gadget, I heard him out, trying to
appear both interested and co-operative--which is good business. But I
am forced to admit that neither Howley nor his gadget were very
impressive. He was a lean, slope-shouldered individual, five-feet-eight
or nine--which was shorter than he looked--with straight brown hair
combed straight back and blue eyes which were shielded with steel-rimmed
glasses. The thick, double-concave lenses indicated a degree of myopia
that must have bordered on total blindness without glasses, and acute
tunnel vision, even with them.

He had a crisp, incisive manner that indicated he was either a man who
knew what he was doing or a man who was trying to impress me with a
ready-made story. I listened to him and looked at his gadget without
giving any more indication than necessary of what I really thought.

When he was through, I said: "You understand, Mr. Howley that I'm not a
patent lawyer; I specialize in criminal law. Now, I can recommend--"

But he cut me off. "I understand that, counselor," he said sharply.
"Believe me, I have no illusion whatever that this thing is patentable
under the present patent system. Even if it were, this gadget is
designed to do something that may or may not be illegal, which would
make it hazardous to attempt to patent it, I should think. You don't
patent new devices for blowing safes or new drugs for doping horses, do
you?"

"Probably not," I said dryly, "although, as I say, I'm not qualified to
give an opinion on patent law. You say that gadget is designed to cause
minute, but significant, changes in the velocities of small, moving
objects. Just how does that make it illegal?"

He frowned a little. "Well, possibly it wouldn't, except here in Nevada.
Specifically, it is designed to influence roulette and dice games."

I looked at the gadget with a little more interest this time. There was
nothing new in the idea of inventing a gadget to cheat the red-and-black
wheels, of course; the local cops turn up a dozen a day here in the
city. Most of them either don't work at all or else they're too obvious,
so the users get nabbed before they have a chance to use them.

The only ones that really work have to be installed in the tables
themselves, which means they're used to milk the suckers, not rob the
management. And anyone in the State of Nevada who buys a license to
operate and then uses crooked wheels is (a) stupid, and (b) out of
business within a week. Howley was right. Only in a place where gambling
is legalized is it illegal--and unprofitable--to rig a game.

The gadget itself didn't look too complicated from the outside. It was a
black plastic box about an inch and a half square and maybe three and a
half long. On one end was a lensed opening, half an inch in diameter,
and on two sides there were flat, silver-colored plates. On the top of
it, there was a dial which was, say, an inch in diameter, and it was
marked off just exactly like a roulette wheel.

"How does it work?" I asked.

He picked it up in his hand, holding it as though it were a flashlight,
with the lens pointed away from him.

"You aim the lens at the wheel," he explained, "making sure that your
thumb is touching the silver plate on one side, and your fingers
touching the plate on the other side. Then you set this dial for
whatever number you want to come up and concentrate on it while the ball
is spinning. For dice, of course, you only need to use the first six or
twelve numbers on the dial, depending on the game."

       *       *       *       *       *

I looked at him for a long moment, trying to figure his angle. He looked
back steadily, his eyes looking like small beads peering through the
bottoms of a couple of shot glasses.

"You look skeptical, counselor," he said at last.

"I am. A man who hasn't got the ability to be healthily skeptical has no
right to practice law--especially criminal law. On the other hand, no
lawyer has any right to judge anything one way or the other without
evidence.

"But that's neither here nor there at the moment. What I'm interested in
is, what do you want me to do? People rarely come to a criminal lawyer
unless they're in a jam. What sort of jam are you in at the moment?"

"None," said Howley. "But I will be very soon. I hope."

Well, I've heard odder statements than that from my clients. I let it
ride for the moment and looked down at the notes I'd taken while he'd
told me his story.

"You're a native of New York City?" I asked.

"That's right. That's what I said."

"And you came out here for what? To use that thing on our Nevada
tables?"

"That's right, counselor."

"Can't you find any games to cheat on back home?"

"Oh, certainly. Plenty of them. But they aren't legal. I wouldn't care
to get mixed up in anything illegal. Besides, it wouldn't suit my
purpose."

That stopped me for a moment. "You don't consider cheating illegal? It
certainly is in Nevada. In New York, if you were caught at it, you'd
have the big gambling interests on your neck; here, you'll have both
them _and_ the police after you. _And_ the district attorney's office."

He smiled. "Yes, I know. That's what I'm expecting. That's why I need a
good lawyer to defend me. I understand you're the top man in this city."

"Mr. Howley," I said carefully, "as a member of the Bar Association and
a practicing attorney in the State of Nevada, I am an Officer of the
Court. If you had been caught cheating and had come to me, I'd be able
to help you. But I can't enter into a conspiracy with you to defraud
legitimate businessmen, which is exactly what this would be."

He blinked at me through those shot-glass spectacles. "Counselor, would
you refuse to defend a man if you thought he was guilty?"

I shook my head. "No. Legally, a man is not guilty until proven so by a
court of law. He has a right to trial by jury. For me to refuse to give
a man the defense he is legally entitled to, just because I happened to
think he was guilty, would be trial by attorney. I'll do the best I can
for any client; I'll work for his interests, no matter what my private
opinion may be."

He looked impressed, so I guess there must have been a note of
conviction in my voice. There should have been, because it was exactly
what I've always believed and practiced.

"That's good, counselor," said Howley. "If I can convince you that I
have no criminal intent, that I have no intention of defrauding anyone
or conspiring with you to do anything illegal, will you help me?"

I didn't have to think that one over. I simply said, "Yes." After all,
it was still up to me to decide whether he convinced me or not. If he
didn't, I could still refuse the case on those grounds.

"That's fair enough, counselor," he said. Then he started talking.

       *       *       *       *       *

Instead of telling you what Jason Howley _said_ he was going to do, I'll
tell you what he _did_ do. They are substantially the same, anyway, and
the old bromide about actions speaking louder than words certainly
applied in this case.

Mind you, I didn't see or hear any of this, but there were plenty of
witnesses to testify as to what went on. Their statements are a matter
of court record, and Jason Howley's story is substantiated in every
respect.

He left my office smiling. He'd convinced me that the case was not only
going to be worthwhile, but fun. I took it, plus a fat retainer.

Howley went up to his hotel room, changed into his expensive evening
clothes, and headed out to do the town. I'd suggested several places,
but he wanted the biggest and best--the Golden Casino, a big, plush,
expensive place that was just inside the city limits. In his pockets, he
was carrying less than two hundred dollars in cash.

Now, nobody with that kind of chicken feed can expect to last long at
the Golden Casino unless they stick to the two-bit one-armed bandits.
But putting money on a roulette table is in a higher bracket by far than
feeding a slot machine, even if you get a steady run of lemons.

Howley didn't waste any time. He headed for the roulette table right
away. He watched the play for about three spins of the wheel, then he
took out his gadget--in plain sight of anyone who cared to watch--and
set the dial for thirteen. Then he held it in his hand with thumb and
finger touching the plates and put his hand in his jacket pocket, with
the lens aimed at the wheel. He stepped up to the table, bought a
hundred dollars worth of chips, and put fifty on Number Thirteen.

"No more bets," said the croupier. He spun the wheel and dropped the
ball.

"Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low," he chanted after a minute. With a
practiced hand, he raked in the losers and pushed out Howley's winnings.
There was sixteen hundred dollars sitting on thirteen now. Howley didn't
touch it.

The wheel went around and the little ball clattered around the rim and
finally fell into a slot.

"Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low," said the croupier. This time, he didn't
look as nonchalant. He peered curiously at Howley as he pushed out the
chips to make a grand total of fifty-one thousand two hundred dollars.
The same number doesn't come up twice in succession very often, and it
is very rare indeed that the same person is covering it both times with
a riding bet.

"Two thousand limit, sir," the croupier said, when it looked as though
Howley was going to let the fifty-one grand just sit there.

Howley nodded apologetically and pulled off everything but two thousand
dollars worth of chips.

The third time around, the croupier had his eyes directly on Howley as
he repeated the chant: "Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low." Everybody else
at the table was watching Howley, too. The odds against Howley--or
anyone else, for that matter--hitting the same number three times in a
row are just under forty thousand to one.

Howley didn't want to overdo it. He left two thousand on thirteen, raked
in the rest, and twisted the dial on his gadget over a notch.

Everyone at the table gasped as the little ball dropped.

"That was a near miss," whispered a woman standing nearby.

The croupier said: "Fourteen, Red, Even, and Low." And he raked in
Howley's two thousand dollars with a satisfied smile. He had seen runs
of luck before.

Howley deliberately lost two more spins the same way. Nobody who was
actually cheating would call too much attention to himself, and Howley
wanted it to look as though he were trying to cover up the fact that he
had a sure thing.

He took the gadget out of his pocket and deliberately set it to the
green square marked 00. Then he put it back in his pocket and put two
thousand dollars on the Double Zero.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was more than suspicion in the croupier's eyes when he raked in
all the bets on the table except Howley's. It definitely didn't look
good to him. A man who had started out with a fifty-dollar bet had
managed to run it up to one hundred seventy-four thousand two hundred
dollars in six plays.

Howley looked as innocent as possible under the circumstances, and
carefully dropped the dial on his gadget back a few notches. Then he bet
another two thousand on High, an even money bet.

Naturally, he won.

He twisted the dial back a few more notches and won again on High.

Then he left it where it was and won by betting on Red.

By this time, of course, things were happening. The croupier had long
since pressed the alarm button, and five men had carefully surrounded
Howley. They looked like customers, but they were harder-looking than
the average, and they were watching Howley, not the wheel. Farther back
from the crowd, three of the special deputies from the sheriff's office
were trying to look inconspicuous in their gray uniforms and white
Stetsons and pearl-handled revolvers in black holsters. You can imagine
how inconspicuous they looked.

Howley decided to do it up brown. He reset his gadget as surreptitiously
as possible under the circumstances, and put his money on thirteen
again.

"Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low," said the croupier in a hollow voice.

The five men in evening dress and the three deputies moved in closer.

Howley nonchalantly scraped in his winnings, leaving the two thousand on
the thirteen spot.

There was a combination of hostility and admiration in every eye around
the table when the croupier said, "Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low" for
the fifth time in the space of minutes. And everyone of those eyes was
turned on Jason Howley.

The croupier smiled his professional smile. "I'm sorry, ladies and
gentlemen; we'll have to discontinue play for a while. The gentleman has
broken the bank at this table." He turned the smile on Howley.
"Congratulations, sir."

Howley smiled back and began stacking up over three hundred thousand
dollars worth of plastic disks. It made quite a pile.

One of the deputies stepped up politely. "I'm an officer, sir," he said.
"May I help you carry that to the cashier's office?"

Howley looked at the gold star and nodded. "Certainly. Thanks."

[Illustration]

The other two deputies stepped up, too, and the three of them walked
Howley toward the cashier's office. Behind them came the five men in
dinner jackets.

"You'll have to step into the office to cash that much, sir," said one
of the deputies as he opened the door. Howley walked in as though he
hadn't a care in the world. He put his chips on the desk, and the
deputies followed suit, while one of the dinner-jacketed men closed the
door.

Then one of the deputies said: "I believe this gentleman is carrying a
gun."

He had his own revolver out and had it pointed at Howley's middle.
"Carrying a concealed weapon is illegal in this city," he went on. "I'm
afraid we'll have to search you."

Howley didn't object. He put his hands up high and stood there while his
pockets were frisked.

"Well, well," said the deputy coolly. "What on Earth is this?"

It was Howley's gadget, and the dial still pointed to Thirteen--Black,
Odd, and Low.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning, I went down to the jail in response to a phone call
from Howley. The special deputies had turned him over to the city police
and he was being held "under suspicion of fraud." I knew we could beat
that down to an "attempt to defraud," but the object was to get Howley
off scott-free. After Howley told me the whole story, I got busy pushing
the case through. As long as he was simply being held on suspicion, I
couldn't get him out on bail, so I wanted to force the district attorney
or the police to prefer charges.

Meanwhile, I made sure that Howley's gadget had been impounded as
evidence. I didn't want anyone fiddling with it before the case went to
court--except, of course, the D. A. and his men. There wasn't much I
could do to keep it out of _their_ hands.

After throwing as much weight around as I could, including filing a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus with Judge Grannis, I went over to
Howley's hotel with a signed power of attorney that Howley had given me,
and I got a small envelope out of the hotel safe. It contained a baggage
check.

I went over to the bus depot, turned over the check to the baggage
department, and went back to my office with a small suitcase. I locked
myself in and opened the case. Sure enough, it contained three dozen of
the little gadgets.

Then I sat down to wait. By noon, Judge Grannis had issued the writ of
habeas corpus, and, rather than release Jason Howley, the police had
booked him, and District Attorney Thursby was getting the case ready for
the grand jury. There was over a quarter of a million dollars at stake,
and the men behind the Golden Casino were bringing pressure to bear. If
Howley wasn't convicted, they'd have to give him his money--and that was
the last thing they wanted to do. A quarter of a million bucks isn't
small potatoes, even to a gambling syndicate.

It wasn't until early on the morning of the third day after Howley's
arrest that I got a tip-off from one of my part-time spies. I scooped up
the phone when it rang and identified myself.

"Counselor? Look, this is Benny." I recognized the voice and name. Benny
was one of the cabbies that I'd done favors for in the past.

"What's the trouble, Benny?"

"Oh, no trouble. I just got a little tip you might be interested in."

"Fire away."

"Well, the D.A. and some of his boys went into the Golden Casino about
ten minutes ago, and now they're closin' up the place. Just for a little
while, I understand. Hour, maybe. They're chasin' everyone out of the
roulette room."

"Thanks, Benny," I said, "thanks a lot."

"Well, I knew you was working on that Howley case, and I thought this
might be important, so I--"

"Sure, Benny. Come by my office this afternoon. And thanks again."

I hung up and started moving.

Within ten minutes, I was pulling up and parking across the street from
the Golden Casino. I locked the car and dodged traffic to get across the
street, as though I'd never heard of laws against jaywalking.

There were still plenty of people in the Casino. The bar was full, and
the dice and card games were going full blast. The slot machines were
jingling out their infernal din while fools fed coins into their
insatiable innards.

But the roulette room was closed, and a couple of be-Stetsoned deputies
were standing guard over the entrance. I headed straight for them.

Both of them stood pat, blocking my way, so I stopped a few feet in
front of them.

"Hello, counselor," said one. "Sorry, the roulette room's closed."

I knew the man slightly. "Let me in, Jim," I said. "I want to see
Thursby."

The men exchanged glances. Obviously, the D.A. had given them orders.

"Can't do it, counselor," said Jim. "We're not to let anyone in."

"Tell Thursby I'm out here and that I want to see him."

He shrugged, opened the door, stuck his head inside, and called to
District Attorney Thursby to tell him that I was outside. I could hear
Thursby's muffled "Damn!" from within. But when he showed up at the
door, his face was all smiles.

"What's the trouble?" he asked pleasantly.

I smiled back, giving him my best. "No trouble at all, Thursby. I just
wanted to watch the experiment."

"Experiment?" He looked honestly surprised, which was a fine piece of
acting. "We're just checking to see if the table's wired, that's all. If
it is, your client may be in the clear; maybe we can hang it on the
croupier."

"And get a conspiracy charge on my client, too, eh? Well, if you don't
mind, I'd like to watch that table check myself. You know how it is."

Thursby hesitated, then he scowled. "Oh, all right. Come on in. But stay
out of the way."

I grinned. "Sure. All I want to do is protect my client's interests."

Thursby just grunted and opened the door wider to let me in. He was a
shrewd lawyer, a good D.A., and basically honest, even if he did have a
tendency to bend under pressure from higher up.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were checking the table, all right. They had three specialists
going over it with everything from fine tooth combs to Geiger counters.
They found nothing. No magnets, no wires, no mechanical gimmicks.
Nothing.

It took them an hour to take that table apart, check it, and put it back
together again. When it was all over, Thursby glanced at me, then said:
"O.K., boys; that does it. Let's go."

The men looked at him oddly, and I knew why.

"Aren't you going to test my client's gadget?" I asked innocently.

Thursby looked angrily baffled for a moment, then he clamped his lips
grimly. "As long as we're here, I guess we might as well."

I knew perfectly well it was what he had intended to do all along.

"One of you guys spin that wheel," he said to the technicians. One of
them gave the wheel a spin and dropped the ball. It clattered on its
merry way and dropped into a slot. Forty-two.

Thursby took the gadget out of his pocket. It was still set at Thirteen.

The men who had surrounded Howley on the night of his arrest had been
keeping their eyes open, and they had seen how Howley had handled the
thing. Well--_almost_ how. Thursby had the lens opening pointed at the
wheel, but his thumb and fingers weren't touching the silver plates
properly.

"Spin it again," he said.

Everyone's eyes were on the ball as it whirled, so I had time to get my
own copy of Howley's gadget out and set it at Thirteen. I hoped the
thing would work for me. I concentrated on Thirteen, making sure my
thumb and fingers were placed right.

Evidently they were. The ball fell into Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low.

A huge grin spread over Thursby's face, but he was man enough not to
turn and grin at me. "Try it again," he said.

Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low.

"I wonder how the thing works?" said Thursby, looking at the gadget in a
sort of pleased awe.

"You'd better be able to prove that it _does_ work, Thursby," I said,
trying to put irritation into my voice.

This time, he did grin at me. "Oh, I think we can prove that, all
right." He turned back to the technician. "Spin it once more, Sam, and
show the defense counsel, here, how it works."

The technician did as he was told. "Thirteen, Black, Odd, and Low," he
chanted, grinning.

"Let's try another number," Thursby said. He turned the dial to One. And
this time, when he pointed it, his fingers were touching the plates in
the right places.

"Just a minute," I said. "Let me spin that thing."

"Be my guest, counselor," said Thursby.

I spun the wheel and scooted the ball along the rim. It dropped into a
slot. One, Red, Odd, and Low. I looked as disappointed and apprehensive
as I could.

"Co-incidence," I said. "Nothing more. You haven't proved anything."

Thursby's grin widened. "Of course I haven't," he said with a soothing,
patronizing tone. "But I don't have to prove anything until I get to
court."

Then he looked at the technicians and jerked his head toward the door.
"Let's go, boys. Maybe the counselor wants to look over the table for
himself. Maybe he thinks we've got it rigged."

There was a chorus of guffaws as they walked out. I just stood there,
scowling, trying to keep from laughing even harder than they were.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jason Howley sat next to me at the defense table, just inside the low
partition that divided the court from the public. There weren't many
people in the auditorium itself; listening to some poor dope get himself
sentenced for cheating at gambling is considered pretty dull
entertainment in the State of Nevada.

Thursby had managed to push the indictment through the grand jury in a
hurry, but, as he sat across the room from me at the prosecution table,
I thought I could detect a false note in the assumed look of confidence
that he was trying to wear.

Howley tapped me on the shoulder. I turned around, and he whispered:
"How much longer?"

I tapped my wrist watch. "Couple minutes. Judge Lapworth is one of those
precisionists. Never a moment late or early. Getting jumpy?"

He shook his head gently and smiled. "No. You've handled this even
better than I'd have imagined. You thought of things I didn't even know
existed. I'm no lawyer; I can see that."

I returned the smile. "And I don't invent gimmicks, either. So what?"

His eyes looked at me from behind the distorting negative lenses. "I've
been wondering, counselor--why are you so interested in this? I mean, I
offered you a pretty good fee, and all that, but it seems to me you're
taking an unusual interest in the case."

I grinned at him. "Mr. Howley, my profession is Law--with a capital L.
The study of the Law isn't like the study of physics or whatever; these
are manmade laws--commands, not descriptions. They don't necessarily
have anything to do with facts at all. Take the word 'insanity,' for
instance; the word isn't even used by head-shrinkers any more because
it's a legal definition that has nothing whatever to do with the
condition of the human mind.

"Now, any such set of laws as that can't possibly be self-consistent and
still have some use on an action level. A lawyer's job is to find the
little inconsistencies in the structure, the places where the pieces
have been jammed together in an effort to make them look like a
structured whole. To find, in other words, the loopholes and use them.

"And when I find a loophole, I like to wring everything I can out of it.
I'm enjoying this."

Howley nodded. "I see. But what if something--"

I held up my hand to silence him, because the door to the judges'
chambers opened at that moment, and Judge Lapworth came in as the
bailiff announced him. We all stood up while the bailiff intoned his
"Oyez, oyez."

Thursby made a short preliminary speech to the jury, and I requested and
was granted permission to hold my own opening statement until the
defense was ready to present its case.

Thursby was looking worried, although it took a trained eye to see it. I
was pretty sure I knew why. He had been pushed too hard and had gone too
fast. He'd managed to slide through the grand jury too easily, and I had
managed to get the trial date set for a week later. Thursby's case was
far from being as tight as he wanted it.

       *       *       *       *       *

I just sat still while the prosecution brought forth its witnesses and
evidence. The croupier, the deputies, several employees of the Golden
Casino, and a couple of patrons all told their stories. I waived
cross-examination in every case, which made Thursby even edgier than he
had been.

When he called in the head of the technicians who had inspected the
table at the casino, I made no objection to his testimony, but I made my
first cross-examination.

"Mr. Thompson, you have stated your qualifications as an expert on the
various devices which have been used to illegally influence the
operation of gambling devices in this state."

Thursby said: "Oh, if the Court please, I should like to remind counsel
for the defense that he has already accepted the qualifications of the
witness."

"I am not attempting to impugn the qualifications of the witness," I
snapped.

Judge Lapworth frowned at Thursby. "Are you making an objection, Mr.
District Attorney?"

Thursby pursed his lips, said, "No, Your Honor," and sat down.

"Proceed with the cross-examination," said the judge.

"Mr. Thompson," I said, "you have testified that you examined the table
at the Golden Casino for such devices and found none. Is that right?"

"That's right," he said positively.

"Have you seen the device labeled People's Exhibit A, which was found by
the officers on the person of the defendant?"

"Well ... yes. I have."

"Have you examined this device?"

Thursby was on his feet. "Objection, Your Honor! This material was not
brought out in direct examination!"

"Sustained," said Judge Lapworth.

"Very well, Your Honor," I said. Then I turned back to Thompson. "As an
expert in this field, Mr. Thompson, you have examined many different
devices for cheating gambling equipment, haven't you?"

"Yes, I have."

"How many, would you say?"

"Oh ... several hundred."

"Several hundred different _types_?"

"No. Several hundred individual devices. Most of them are just
variations of two or three basic types."

"And you are familiar with the function of these basic types and their
variations?"

"I am."

"You know exactly how all of them work, then?"

He saw where I was heading. "Most of them," he hedged.

Thursby saw where I was heading, too, and was sweating. I'd managed to
get around his objection.

"Have you ever examined any which you could not understand?"

"I ... I don't quite know what you mean."

"Have you ever," I said firmly, "come across a device used in cheating
which you could not comprehend or explain the operation of?"

Thursby stood up. "Same objection as before, Your Honor."

"Your Honor," I said, "I am merely trying to find the limitations of the
witness' knowledge; I am not trying to refute his acknowledged ability."

"Overruled," said Judge Lapworth. "The witness will answer the
question."

I repeated the question.

"Yes," Thompson said in a low voice.

"More than once?"

"Only once."

"Only once. You did find one device which didn't operate in any fashion
you can explain. Is that right?"

"That's right."

"Can you tell me what this device was?"

Thompson took a deep breath. "It was People's Exhibit A--the device
taken from the defendant at the time of his arrest."

There was a buzz in the courtroom.

"No more questions," I said, turning away. Then, before Thompson could
leave the stand, I turned back to him. "Oh, just one moment, Mr.
Thompson. Did you examine this device carefully? Did you take it apart?"

"I opened it and looked at it."

"You just looked at it? You didn't subject it to any tests?"

Thompson took a deep breath. "No."

"Why not?"

"There wasn't anything inside it to test."

       *       *       *       *       *

This time, there was more than just a buzz around the courtroom. Judge
Lapworth rapped for order.

When the room was quiet, I said: "The box was empty, then?"

"Well, no. Not exactly empty. It had some stuff in it."

I turned to the judge. "If the Court please, I would like to have the
so-called device, Exhibit A, opened so that the members of the jury may
see for themselves what it contains."

[Illustration]

Judge Lapworth said: "The Court would like very much to see the internal
workings of this device, too. Bailiff, if you will, please."

The bailiff handed him the gadget from the exhibit table.

"How does it open?" asked the judge. He turned to Thompson. "Will the
witness please open the box?"

Reluctantly, Thompson thumbed the catch and slid off the top.

The judge took it from him, looked inside, and stared for a long moment.

I had already seen the insides. It was painted white, and there were
inked lines running all over the inside, and various pictures--a ball, a
pair of dice, a roulette wheel--and some other symbols that I didn't
pretend to understand.

Otherwise, the box was empty.

After a moment, Judge Lapworth looked up from the box and stared at
Thursby. Then he looked at Thompson. "Just what tests _did_ you perform
on this ... this thing, Mr. Thompson?"

"Well, Your Honor," Thompson said, visibly nervous, "I checked it for
all kinds of radiation and magnetism. There isn't anything like that
coming from it. But," he added lamely, "there wasn't much else to test.
Not without damaging the box."

"I see." His honor glared at Thursby, but didn't say anything to him. He
simply ordered the box to be shown to the jury.

Thursby was grimly holding his ground, waiting.

"Have you any more questions, counselor?" the judge asked.

"No, Your Honor, I have not."

"Witness may step down," said his honor to Thompson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thursby stood up. "If the Court please, I would like to stage a small
demonstration for the members of the jury."

The Court gave permission, and a roulette wheel was hauled in on a small
table.

I watched with interest and without objection while Thursby demonstrated
the use of the gadget and then asked each of the jurors in turn to try
it. It was a long way from being a successful demonstration. Some of the
jurors didn't hold the thing right, and some of those that did just
didn't have the mental ability required to use it. But that didn't
bother Thursby.

"Your Honor, and Gentlemen of the Jury," he said, "you are all aware
that a device constructed for the purpose of cheating at any gambling
game is not necessarily one hundred per cent infallible. It doesn't have
to be. All it has to do is turn the odds in favor of the user.

"You are all familiar with loaded dice, I'm sure. And you know that
loading dice for one set of numbers merely increases the probability
that those numbers will come up; it does not guarantee that they will
come up every time.

"It is the same with marked cards. Marking the backs of a deck of cards
doesn't mean that you will invariably get a better hand than your
opponent; it doesn't even mean that you will win every hand.

"The device taken from the defendant at the Golden Casino does not, as
you have seen, work every time. But, as you have also seen, it certainly
_does_ shift the odds by a considerable percentage. And that, I submit,
is illegal under the laws of this state."

He went on, building on that theme for a while, then he turned the trial
over to the defense.

"Call Dr. Pettigrew to the stand," I said.

I heard Thursby's gasp, but I ignored it.

A chunky, balding man with a moon face and an irritated expression came
up to be sworn in. He was irritated with me for having subpoenaed him,
and he showed it. I hoped he wouldn't turn out to be hostile.

"You are Dr. Herbert Pettigrew?" I asked.

"That is correct."

"State your residence, please."

"3109 La Jolla Boulevard, Los Angeles, California."

"You are called 'Doctor' Pettigrew, I believe. Would you tell the Court
what right you have to that title?"

He looked a little miffed, but he said: "It is a scholarly title. A
Doctorate of Philosophy in physics from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology."

"I see. Would you mind telling the Court what other academic degrees you
have?"

He reeled off a list of them, all impressive.

"Thank you, doctor," I said. "Now, what is your present occupation?"

"I am a Professor of Physics, at the University of California in Los
Angeles."

I went on questioning him to establish his ability in his field, and by
the time I was finished, the jury was pretty well impressed with his
status in the scientific brotherhood. And not once did Thursby object.

Then I said, "Dr. Pettigrew, I believe you came to this city on a
professional matter?"

"Yes, I did." He didn't hesitate to answer, so I figured I hadn't got
his goat too much.

"And what was the nature of that matter?"

"I was asked to come here by Mr. Harold Thursby, the District Attorney,
to perform some scientific tests on the ... er ... device ... the device
known as People's Exhibit A."

"Did you perform these tests?"

"I did."

"At the request of District Attorney Thursby, is that right?"

"That is correct."

"May I ask why Mr. Thursby did not call you as a witness for the
prosecution?"

Thursby, as I had expected, was on his feet. "Objection! The question
calls for a conclusion of the witness!"

"Sustained," said Judge Lapworth.

"Dr. Pettigrew," I said, "what were your findings in reference to
Exhibit A?"

He shrugged. "The thing is a plastic box with a dial set in one side, a
plastic lens in one end, and a couple of strips of silver along two
other sides. Inside, there are a lot of markings in black ink on white
paint." He gestured toward the exhibit table. "Just what you've seen;
that's all there is to it."

"What sort of tests did you perform to determine this, Dr. Pettigrew?" I
asked.

He took a long time answering that one. He had X-rayed the thing
thoroughly, tested it with apparatus I'd never heard of, taken scrapings
from all over it for microchemical analysis, and even tried it himself
on a roulette wheel. He hadn't been able to make it work.

"And what is your conclusion from these findings?" I asked.

Again he shrugged. "The thing is just a box, that's all. It has no
special properties."

"Would you say that it could be responsible for the phenomena we have
just seen? By that, I mean the peculiar action of the roulette wheel,
demonstrated here by the prosecution."

"Definitely not," he stated flatly. "The box could not possibly have any
effect on either the wheel or the ball."

"I see. Thank you, doctor; that's all. Cross-examine."

Thursby walked over to the witness stand with a belligerent scowl on his
face. "Dr. Pettigrew, you say that the box couldn't possibly have had
any effect on the wheel. And yet, we have demonstrated that there _is_
an effect. Don't you believe the testimony of your own senses?"

"Certainly I do!" snapped Pettigrew.

"Then how do you account for the behavior of the roulette wheel as you
have just seen it demonstrated in this court?"

I suppressed a grin. Thursby was so mad that he was having trouble
expressing himself clearly.

"In several ways!" Pettigrew said sharply. "In the first place, that
wheel could be rigged."

Thursby purpled. "Now, just a minute! I--"

I started to object, but Judge Lapworth beat me to it.

"Are you objecting to the answer, Mr. District Attorney?"

"The witness is insinuating that I falsified evidence!"

"I am not!" said Pettigrew, visibly angry. "You asked me how I could
account for its behavior, and I told you one way! There are others!"

"The wheel will be examined," said Judge Lapworth darkly. "Tell us the
other ways, Dr. Pettigrew."

"Pure chance," said Pettigrew. "Pure chance, Your Honor. I'm sure that
everyone in this courtroom has seen runs of luck on a roulette wheel.
According to the laws of probability, such runs must inevitably happen.
Frankly, I believe that just such a run has occurred here. I do not
think for a minute that Mr. Thursby or anyone else rigged that wheel."

"I see; thank you, Dr. Pettigrew," said the judge. "Any further
questions, Mr. District Attorney?"

"No further questions," Thursby said, trying to hide his anger.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Call your next witness," said the judge, looking at me.

"I call Mr. Jason Howley to the stand."

Howley sat down and was sworn in. I went through the preliminaries, then
asked: "Mr. Howley, you have seen People's Exhibit A?"

"I have."

"To whom does it belong?"

"It is mine. It was taken from me by--"

"Just answer the question, please," I admonished him. He knew his
script, but he was jumping the gun. "The device is yours, then?"

"That's right."

"Under what circumstances did this device come into the hands of the
police?"

He told what had happened on the night of the big take at the Golden
Casino.

"Would you explain to us just what this device is?" I asked when he had
finished.

"Certainly," he said. "It's a good luck charm."

I could hear the muffled reaction in the courtroom.

"A good luck charm. I see. Then it has no effect on the wheel at all?"

"Oh, I wouldn't say that," Howley said disarmingly. He smiled and looked
at the jury. "It certainly has _some_ effect. It's the only good luck
charm I ever had that worked."

The jury was grinning right back at him. They were all gamblers at
heart, and I never knew a gambler yet who didn't have some sort of good
luck charm or superstition when it came to gambling. We had them all in
the palms of our hands.

"What I mean is, does it have any _physical_ effect on the wheel?"

Howley looked puzzled. "Well, I don't know about that. That's not my
field. You better ask Dr. Pettigrew."

There was a smothered laugh somewhere in the courtroom.

"Just how do you operate this good luck charm, Mr. Howley?" I asked.

"Why, you just hold it so that your thumb touches one strip of silver
and your fingers touch the other, then you set the dial to whatever
number you want to come up and wish."

"_Wish?_ Just _wish_, Mr. Howley?"

"Just wish. That's all. What else can you do with a good luck charm?"

This time, the judge had to pound for order to stop the laughing.

I turned Howley over to Thursby.

The D.A. hammered at him for half an hour trying to get something out of
Howley, but he didn't get anywhere useful. Howley admitted that he'd
come to Nevada to play the wheels; what was wrong with that? He admitted
that he'd come just to try out his good luck charm--and what was wrong
with that? He even admitted that it worked for him every time--

And what was wrong, pray, with _that_?

Thursby knew he was licked. He'd known it for a long time. His summation
to the jury showed it. The expressions on the faces of the jury as they
listened showed it.

They brought in a verdict of Not Guilty.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I got back to my office, I picked up the phone and called the
Golden Casino. I asked for George Brockey, the manager. When I got him
on the phone and identified myself, he said, "Oh. It's you." His voice
didn't sound friendly.

"It's me," I said.

"I suppose you're going to slap a suit for false arrest on the Casino
now, eh, counselor?"

"Not a bit of it, George," I said. "The thought occurred to me, but I
think we can come to terms."

"Yeah?"

"Nothing to it, George. You give us the three hundred grand and we don't
do a thing."

"Yeah?" He didn't get it. He had to fork over the money anyway,
according to the court order, so what was the deal?

"If you want to go a little further, I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll
give you one of our little good luck charms, if you'll promise to call
your boys off Howley."

"Nobody's on Howley," he said. "You ought to know better than that. In
this state, if we get whipped in court, we play it square. Did you think
we were going to get rough?"

"No. But you kind of figured on lifting that gadget as soon as he gets
it back from the D.A., didn't you? I saw your boys waiting at his hotel.
I'm just telling you that you don't have to do that. We'll give you the
gadget. There are plenty more where that came from."

"I see," Brockey said after a long pause. "O.K., counselor. It's a
deal."

"Fine. We'll pick up the money later this evening, if that's O.K."

"Sure, counselor. Anytime. Anytime at all." He hung up.

I grinned at Howley, who was sitting across the desk from me. "Well,
that winds it up."

"I don't get it," Howley said. "Why'd you call up Brockey? What was the
purpose of that 'deal'?"

"No deal," I told him. "I was just warning him that killing you and
taking the gadget wouldn't do any good, that we've covered you. He won't
bother having anything done to you if he knows that the secret of the
gadget is out already."

Howley's eyes widened behind those spectacles of his. "You mean they'd
kill me? I thought Nevada gamblers were honest."

"Oh, they are, they are. But this is a threat to their whole industry.
It's more than that, it may destroy them. Some of them might kill to
keep that from happening. But you don't have to worry now."

"Thanks. Tell me, do you think we've succeeded?"

"In what you set out to do? Certainly. When we mail out those gadgets to
people all over the state, the place will be in an uproar. With all the
publicity this case is getting, it'll _have_ to work. You now have a
court decision on your side, a decision which says that a psionic device
can be legally used to influence gambling games.

"Why, man, they'll _have_ to start investigating! You'll have every
politico in the State of Nevada insisting that scientists work on that
thing. To say nothing of what the syndicate will do."

"All I wanted to do," said Howley, "was force people to take notice of
psionics. I guess I've done that."

"You certainly have, brother. I wonder what it will come to?"

"I wonder, myself, sometimes," Howley said.

That was three and a half years ago. Neither Howley nor I are wondering
now. According to the front page of today's _Times_, the first
spaceship, with a crew of eighty aboard, reached Mars this morning. And,
on page two, there's a small article headlined: ROCKET OBSOLETE, SAY
SCIENTISTS.

It sure is.
﻿AT the house of Naroumov, a cavalry officer, the long winter night had
been passed in gambling. At five in the morning breakfast was served
to the weary players. The winners ate with relish; the losers, on the
contrary, pushed back their plates and sat brooding gloomily. Under
the influence of the good wine, however, the conversation then became
general.

"Well, Sourine?" said the host inquiringly.

"Oh, I lost as usual. My luck is abominable. No matter how cool I keep,
I never win."

"How is it, Herman, that you never touch a card?" remarked one of the
men, addressing a young officer of the Engineering Corps. "Here you are
with the rest of us at five o'clock in the morning, and you have neither
played nor bet all night."

"Play interests me greatly," replied the person addressed, "but I hardly
care to sacrifice the necessaries of life for uncertain superfluities."

"Herman is a German, therefore economical; that explains it," said
Tomsky. "But the person I can't quite understand is my grandmother, the
Countess Anna Fedorovna."

"Why?" inquired a chorus of voices.

"I can't understand why my grandmother never gambles."

"I don't see anything very striking in the fact that a woman of eighty
refuses to gamble," objected Naroumov.

"Have you never heard her story?"

"No--"

"Well, then, listen to it. To begin with, sixty years ago my grandmother
went to Paris, where she was all the fashion. People crowded each other
in the streets to get a chance to see the 'Muscovite Venus,' as she was
called. All the great ladies played faro, then. On one occasion, while
playing with the Duke of Orleans, she lost an enormous sum. She told her
husband of the debt, but he refused outright to pay it. Nothing could
induce him to change his mind on the subject, and grandmother was at
her wits' ends. Finally, she remembered a friend of hers, Count
Saint-Germain. You must have heard of him, as many wonderful stories
have been told about him. He is said to have discovered the elixir of
life, the philosopher's stone, and many other equally marvelous things.
He had money at his disposal, and my grandmother knew it. She sent him a
note asking him to come to see her. He obeyed her summons and found her
in great distress. She painted the cruelty of her husband in the darkest
colors, and ended by telling the Count that she depended upon his
friendship and generosity.

"'I could lend you the money,' replied the Count, after a moment of
thoughtfulness, 'but I know that you would not enjoy a moment's rest
until you had returned it; it would only add to your embarrassment.
There is another way of freeing yourself.'

"'But I have no money at all,' insisted my grandmother.

"'There is no need of money. Listen to me.'

"The Count then told her a secret which any of us would give a good deal
to know."

The young gamesters were all attention. Tomsky lit his pipe, took a few
whiffs, then continued:

"The next evening, grandmother appeared at Versailles at the Queen's
gaming-table. The Duke of Orleans was the dealer. Grandmother made some
excuse for not having brought any money, and began to punt. She chose
three cards in succession, again and again, winning every time, and was
soon out of debt."

"A fable," remarked Herman; "perhaps the cards were marked."

"I hardly think so," replied Tomsky, with an air of importance.

"So you have a grandmother who knows three winning cards, and you
haven't found out the magic secret."

"I must say I have not. She had four sons, one of them being my father,
all of whom are devoted to play; she never told the secret to one of
them. But my uncle told me this much, on his word of honor. Tchaplitzky,
who died in poverty after having squandered millions, lost at one time,
at play, nearly three hundred thousand rubles. He was desperate and
grandmother took pity on him. She told him the three cards, making him
swear never to use them again. He returned to the game, staked fifty
thousand rubles on each card, and came out ahead, after paying his
debts."

As day was dawning the party now broke up, each one draining his glass
and taking his leave.

The Countess Anna Fedorovna was seated before her mirror in her
dressing-room. Three women were assisting at her toilet. The old
Countess no longer made the slightest pretensions to beauty, but she
still clung to all the habits of her youth, and spent as much time at
her toilet as she had done sixty years before. At the window a young
girl, her ward, sat at her needlework.

"Good afternoon, grandmother," cried a young officer, who had just
entered the room. "I have come to ask a favor of you."

"What, Pavel?"

"I want to be allowed to present one of my friends to you, and to take
you to the ball on Tuesday night."

"Take me to the ball and present him to me there."

After a few more remarks the officer walked up to the window where
Lisaveta Ivanovna sat.

"Whom do you wish to present?" asked the girl.

"Naroumov; do you know him?"

"No; is he a soldier?"

"Yes."

"An engineer?"

"No; why do you ask?"

The girl smiled and made no reply.

Pavel Tomsky took his leave, and, left to herself, Lisaveta glanced
out of the window. Soon, a young officer appeared at the corner of the
street; the girl blushed and bent her head low over her canvas.

This appearance of the officer had become a daily occurrence. The man
was totally unknown to her, and as she was not accustomed to coquetting
with the soldiers she saw on the street, she hardly knew how to explain
his presence. His persistence finally roused an interest entirely
strange to her. One day, she even ventured to smile upon her admirer,
for such he seemed to be.

The reader need hardly be told that the officer was no other than
Herman, the would-be gambler, whose imagination had been strongly
excited by the story told by Tomsky of the three magic cards.

"Ah," he thought, "if the old Countess would only reveal the secret to
me. Why not try to win her good-will and appeal to her sympathy?"

With this idea in mind, he took up his daily station before the house,
watching the pretty face at the window, and trusting to fate to bring
about the desired acquaintance.

One day, as Lisaveta was standing on the pavement about to enter the
carriage after the Countess, she felt herself jostled and a note was
thrust into her hand. Turning, she saw the young officer at her elbow.
As quick as thought, she put the note in her glove and entered the
carriage. On her return from the drive, she hastened to her chamber to
read the missive, in a state of excitement mingled with fear. It was
a tender and respectful declaration of affection, copied word for word
from a German novel. Of this fact, Lisa was, of course, ignorant.

The young girl was much impressed by the missive, but she felt that
the writer must not be encouraged. She therefore wrote a few lines of
explanation and, at the first opportunity, dropped it, with the letter,
out of the window. The officer hastily crossed the street, picked up the
papers and entered a shop to read them.

In no wise daunted by this rebuff, he found the opportunity to send
her another note in a few days. He received no reply, but, evidently
understanding the female heart, he presevered, begging for an interview.
He was rewarded at last by the following:

"To-night we go to the ambassador's ball. We shall remain until two
o'clock. I can arrange for a meeting in this way. After our departure,
the servants will probably all go out, or go to sleep. At half-past
eleven enter the vestibule boldly, and if you see any one, inquire for
the Countess; if not, ascend the stairs, turn to the left and go on
until you come to a door, which opens into her bedchamber. Enter
this room and behind a screen you will find another door leading to a
corridor; from this a spiral staircase leads to my sitting-room. I shall
expect to find you there on my return."

Herman trembled like a leaf as the appointed hour drew near. He obeyed
instructions fully, and, as he met no one, he reached the old lady's
bedchamber without difficulty. Instead of going out of the small door
behind the screen, however, he concealed himself in a closet to await
the return of the old Countess.

The hours dragged slowly by; at last he heard the sound of wheels.
Immediately lamps were lighted and servants began moving about. Finally
the old woman tottered into the room, completely exhausted. Her women
removed her wraps and proceeded to get her in readiness for the night.
Herman watched the proceedings with a curiosity not unmingled with
superstitious fear. When at last she was attired in cap and gown, the
old woman looked less uncanny than when she wore her ball-dress of blue
brocade.

She sat down in an easy chair beside a table, as she was in the habit
of doing before retiring, and her women withdrew. As the old lady sat
swaying to and fro, seemingly oblivious to her surroundings, Herman
crept out of his hiding-place.

At the slight noise the old woman opened her eyes, and gazed at the
intruder with a half-dazed expression.

"Have no fear, I beg of you," said Herman, in a calm voice. "I have not
come to harm you, but to ask a favor of you instead."

The Countess looked at him in silence, seemingly without comprehending
him. Herman thought she might be deaf, so he put his lips close to her
ear and repeated his remark. The listener remained perfectly mute.

"You could make my fortune without its costing you anything," pleaded
the young man; "only tell me the three cards which are sure to win,
and--"

Herman paused as the old woman opened her lips as if about to speak.

"It was only a jest; I swear to you, it was only a jest," came from the
withered lips.

"There was no jesting about it. Remember Tchaplitzky, who, thanks to
you, was able to pay his debts."

An expression of interior agitation passed over the face of the old
woman; then she relapsed into her former apathy.

"Will you tell me the names of the magic cards, or not?" asked Herman
after a pause.

There was no reply.

The young man then drew a pistol from his pocket, exclaiming: "You old
witch, I'll force you to tell me!"

At the sight of the weapon the Countess gave a second sign of life. She
threw back her head and put out her hands as if to protect herself; then
they dropped and she sat motionless.

Herman grasped her arm roughly, and was about to renew his threats, when
he saw that she was dead!

*****

Seated in her room, still in her ball-dress, Lisaveta gave herself up to
her reflections. She had expected to find the young officer there, but
she felt relieved to see that he was not.

Strangely enough, that very night at the ball, Tomsky had rallied her
about her preference for the young officer, assuring her that he knew
more than she supposed he did.

"Of whom are you speaking?" she had asked in alarm, fearing her
adventure had been discovered.

"Of the remarkable man," was the reply. "His name is Herman."

Lisa made no reply.

"This Herman," continued Tomsky, "is a romantic character; he has the
profile of a Napoleon and the heart of a Mephistopheles. It is said he
has at least three crimes on his conscience. But how pale you are."

"It is only a slight headache. But why do you talk to me of this
Herman?"

"Because I believe he has serious intentions concerning you."

"Where has he seen me?"

"At church, perhaps, or on the street."

The conversation was interrupted at this point, to the great regret of
the young girl. The words of Tomsky made a deep impression upon her, and
she realized how imprudently she had acted. She was thinking of all this
and a great deal more when the door of her apartment suddenly opened,
and Herman stood before her. She drew back at sight of him, trembling
violently.

"Where have you been?" she asked in a frightened whisper.

"In the bedchamber of the Countess. She is dead," was the calm reply.

"My God! What are you saying?" cried the girl.

"Furthermore, I believe that I was the cause of her death."

The words of Tomsky flashed through Lisa's mind.

Herman sat down and told her all. She listened with a feeling of terror
and disgust. So those passionate letters, that audacious pursuit were
not the result of tenderness and love. It was money that he desired. The
poor girl felt that she had in a sense been an accomplice in the death
of her benefactress. She began to weep bitterly. Herman regarded her in
silence.

"You are a monster!" exclaimed Lisa, drying her eyes.

"I didn't intend to kill her; the pistol was not even loaded.

"How are you going to get out of the house?" inquired Lisa. "It is
nearly daylight. I intended to show you the way to a secret staircase,
while the Countess was asleep, as we would have to cross her chamber.
Now I am afraid to do so."

"Direct me, and I will find the way alone," replied Herman.

She gave him minute instructions and a key with which to open the street
door. The young man pressed the cold, inert hand, then went out.

The death of the Countess had surprised no one, as it had long been
expected. Her funeral was attended by every one of note in the
vicinity. Herman mingled with the throng without attracting any especial
attention. After all the friends had taken their last look at the dead
face, the young man approached the bier. He prostrated himself on the
cold floor, and remained motionless for a long time. He rose at last
with a face almost as pale as that of the corpse itself, and went up the
steps to look into the casket. As he looked down it seemed to him that
the rigid face returned his glance mockingly, closing one eye. He turned
abruptly away, made a false step, and fell to the floor. He was picked
up, and, at the same moment, Lisaveta was carried out in a faint.

Herman did not recover his usual composure during the entire day. He
dined alone at an out-of-the-way restaurant, and drank a great deal, in
the hope of stifling his emotion. The wine only served to stimulate his
imagination. He returned home and threw himself down on his bed without
undressing.

During the night he awoke with a start; the moon shone into his chamber,
making everything plainly visible. Some one looked in at the window,
then quickly disappeared. He paid no attention to this, but soon he
heard the vestibule door open. He thought it was his orderly, returning
late, drunk as usual. The step was an unfamiliar one, and he heard the
shuffling sound of loose slippers.

The door of his room opened, and a woman in white entered. She came
close to the bed, and the terrified man recognized the Countess.

"I have come to you against my will," she said abruptly; "but I was
commanded to grant your request. The tray, seven, and ace in succession
are the magic cards. Twenty-four hours must elapse between the use
of each card, and after the three have been used you must never play
again."

The fantom then turned and walked away. Herman heard the outside door
close, and again saw the form pass the window.

He rose and went out into the hall, where his orderly lay asleep on the
floor. The door was closed. Finding no trace of a visitor, he returned
to his room, lit his candle, and wrote down what he had just heard.

Two fixed ideas cannot exist in the brain at the same time any more than
two bodies can occupy the same point in space. The tray, seven, and ace
soon chased away the thoughts of the dead woman, and all other thoughts
from the brain of the young officer. All his ideas merged into a single
one: how to turn to advantage the secret paid for so dearly. He even
thought of resigning his commission and going to Paris to force a
fortune from conquered fate. Chance rescued him from his embarrassment.

*****

Tchekalinsky, a man who had passed his whole life at cards, opened
a club at St. Petersburg. His long experience secured for him the
confidence of his companions, and his hospitality and genial humor
conciliated society.

The gilded youth flocked around him, neglecting society, preferring the
charms of faro to those of their sweethearts. Naroumov invited Herman
to accompany him to the club, and the young man accepted the invitation
only too willingly.

The two officers found the apartments full. Generals and statesmen
played whist; young men lounged on sofas, eating ices or smoking. In
the principal salon stood a long table, at which about twenty men sat
playing faro, the host of the establishment being the banker.

He was a man of about sixty, gray-haired and respectable. His ruddy face
shone with genial humor; his eyes sparkled and a constant smile hovered
around his lips.

Naroumov presented Herman. The host gave him a cordial handshake, begged
him not to stand upon ceremony, and returned, to his dealing. More than
thirty cards were already on the table. Tchekalinsky paused after each
coup, to allow the punters time to recognize their gains or losses,
politely answering all questions and constantly smiling.

After the deal was over, the cards were shuffled and the game began
again.

"Permit me to choose a card," said Herman, stretching out his hand over
the head of a portly gentleman, to reach a livret. The banker bowed
without replying.

Herman chose a card, and wrote the amount of his stake upon it with a
piece of chalk.

"How much is that?" asked the banker; "excuse me, sir, but I do not see
well."

"Forty thousand rubles," said Herman coolly.

All eyes were instantly turned upon the speaker.

"He has lost his wits," thought Naroumov.

"Allow me to observe," said Tchekalinsky, with his eternal smile, "that
your stake is excessive."

"What of it?" replied Herman, nettled. "Do you accept it or not?"

The banker nodded in assent. "I have only to remind you that the cash
will be necessary; of course your word is good, but in order to keep the
confidence of my patrons, I prefer the ready money."

Herman took a bank-check from his pocket and handed it to his host. The
latter examined it attentively, then laid it on the card chosen.

He began dealing: to the right, a nine; to the left, a tray.

"The tray wins," said Herman, showing the card he held--a tray.

A murmur ran through the crowd. Tchekalinsky frowned for a second only,
then his smile returned. He took a roll of bank-bills from his pocket
and counted out the required sum. Herman received it and at once left
the table.

The next evening saw him at the place again. Every one eyed him
curiously, and Tchekalinsky greeted him cordially.

He selected his card and placed upon it his fresh stake. The banker
began dealing: to the right, a nine; to the left, a seven.

Herman then showed his card--a seven spot. The onlookers exclaimed,
and the host was visibly disturbed. He counted out ninety-four-thousand
rubles and passed them to Herman, who accepted them without showing the
least surprise, and at once withdrew.

The following evening he went again. His appearance was the signal for
the cessation of all occupation, every one being eager to watch the
developments of events. He selected his card--an ace.

The dealing began: to the right, a queen; to the left, an ace.

"The ace wins," remarked Herman, turning up his card without glancing at
it.

"Your queen is killed," remarked Tchekalinsky quietly.

Herman trembled; looking down, he saw, not the ace he had selected,
but the queen of spades. He could scarcely believe his eyes. It seemed
impossible that he could have made such a mistake. As he stared at the
card it seemed to him that the queen winked one eye at him mockingly.

"The old woman!" he exclaimed involuntarily.

The croupier raked in the money while he looked on in stupid terror.
When he left the table, all made way for him to pass; the cards were
shuffled, and the gambling went on.

Herman became a lunatic. He was confined at the hospital at Oboukov,
where he spoke to no one, but kept constantly murmuring in a monotonous
tone: "The tray, seven, ace! The tray, seven, queen!"
﻿CHAPTER I.

THE BRIDLE-PATH.


A small valley cutting through a range of mountains in California--a
green oasis that looked strange and picturesque in the midst of that
savage scenery. The cliffs rose in a solid wall on one side to the
height of many hundred feet. Dwarfed fir-trees and dead cedars were
scattered along the summit, stretching up their gaunt limbs and adding
to the lonely grandeur of the scene. Great masses of broken rocks,
which, in some conflict of the elements, had been wrenched from their
bed, projected from the rifted precipices and lay in great moss-covered
boulders in the lap of the valley. On the southeastern side a break in
the heart of the cliffs was covered with thrifty verdure, and, over the
rocks that obstructed it, a mountain torrent rushed thundering into the
valley, dividing that cradle of verdure in the middle, and abruptly
disappearing through another gorge, breaking to the open country
somewhat lower down, where it plunged over a second precipice with the
sound of distant artillery.

Just above the spot where this mountain stream cut the valley in twain,
a collection of huts, tents and rickety frame houses composed one of
those new villages that are so often found in a frontier country, and
half a mile above stood a small ranche, with its long, low-roofed
dwelling half buried in heavy vines that clambered up the rude cedar
pillars of the veranda, and crept in leafy masses along the roof.
Beyond this, great oaks sheltered the dwelling, and the precipice that
loomed behind it was broken with rifts of verdure, which saved this
portion of the valley from the savage aspect of the mountains lower
down.

The sunset was streaming over this picturesque spot; great masses of
gorgeous clouds, piled up in the west, were casting their glory down
the valley, turning the waters to gold, and, flashing against the
metallic sides of the mountains, changed them into rifts and ledges of
solid gems.

Standing upon the rustic veranda, and looking down over the beautiful
valley dotted with tents and picturesque cabins, the waters singing
pleasantly, the evening wind fluttering the greenness of the trees,
that mountain pass appeared so tranquil and quiet, a stranger could
hardly have believed the repose only an occasional thing. In truth, it
is the heavenly aspect of the valley that I have given you, and that
was truly beautiful.

Only a few miles off, still higher up among the rugged mountains, the
"gold diggings" commenced, and from this point, every Saturday night
of that beautiful summer, came down crowds of wild, reckless men with
their bowie-knives, revolvers, and the gold-dust which soon changed
hands either at the liquor-bar, set up in some log-cabin, or the
gambling-table, established in an opposite shanty.

Before the gold excitement, that pretty ranche had been the abode of
a quiet family, whose cattle were fed on the luxuriant herbage of the
valley; but the reckless adventurers that crowded there soon drove
the household into less turbulent quarters, and the dwelling changed
its occupants many times. Thus its quiet walls soon became accustomed
to scenes of strife and dissipation, which destroyed its respectable,
home-like appearance entirely; and the place that had originally been
a pleasing feature in the valley shared the general aspect of the
neighborhood. Still, nature will assert her rights; and, amid the wild
riot of the valley, vines grew luxuriantly as ever, flowers blossomed
in the turf, and the water fall sounded loud and clear above the shouts
of savage men, however turbulently they might be raised.

By one of the upper windows of this dwelling stood a woman, leaning
idly against the rude sill and looking down the sweep of the valley.

Hers was no attitude of expectation; there was no eagerness in the
great eyes that wandered slowly from one object to another, nor did
the glance betray any enjoyment of the beautiful scene. The woman was
evidently lost in deep and melancholy thought; each moment the lines
about her mouth deepened, and the cold sadness of the eyes settled into
a hard, bitter expression which gave something almost repulsive to the
whole face.

She looked very unlike the sort of woman one would have expected to
find in that solitary place. She was tall and slender, and her form
would have appeared almost fragile had it not been for a certain
flexibility and force visible in every line even in that attitude of
repose.

She was young still; but from her face it would have been impossible
to guess at her real age. At one moment it looked fairly girlish; the
next the shadow of some heavy thought swept across it and appeared to
accomplish the work of years upon the features.

It was evident that her fate had been very different from that which
met most of the women who followed husbands and fortune into the
Eldorado of the New World. The hand which lay upon the window-frame was
delicate and white; the colorless pallor of the cheek bore no evidence
of hardship or exposure.

She was plainly dressed, but her garments were made in a picturesque
fashion, and the few ornaments she wore were heavy and rich. Her long,
golden hair was brushed smoothly back from her forehead and gathered in
shining bands at the back of her head, and made the chief beauty of her
person. Only those who have seen the tress of Lucretia Borgia's hair,
preserved still in a foreign gallery, can form any idea of the peculiar
color which I desire to describe. I was wrong to call it golden; it was
too pale for that. In the shadow it had the colorless tint one seldom
sees, except in the locks of very young children; but when she moved,
so that the sun struck its loose ripples, it flashed out so brightly
that it crowned her forehead like a halo.

The sunset deepened, but still the lady remained leaning out of the
window and giving herself up to that gloomy meditation, which sometimes
seemed to deepen into absolute pain.

Suddenly a new object at the upper end of the valley attracted her
attention, and she gazed with more eagerness than she had before
manifested.

Leading by the place where the mountain torrent had cleft its way
through the rocks, there ran a bridle-path, worn by the miners' feet,
from the gold diggings down the valley. It was toward that spot the
lady's eyes were directed, as a small cavalcade wound slowly down the
rocky path and took the grassy plain which led toward the ranche.

An expression of displeasure disturbed the stillness of the woman's
face. She shaded her eyes with her hand and looked eagerly toward the
advancing group; but at that distance it was impossible to distinguish
more than that it consisted of three men mounted on mules, followed by
several persons on foot.

She moved quickly from the window and passed into another room; in a
moment she returned, carrying a spyglass which she directed toward the
procession. After the first glance she drew a heavy breath and muttered:

"It is not they! I shall have an hour more to myself, at all events."

She still continued to watch the slowly approaching group, and saw
that one of the equestrians was supported in his saddle by two of
the guides, while another led the mule by the bridle. The rider had
evidently met with some accident on the road.

Slowly the party moved on; they were in recognizable distance from
the house; by the aid of her glass, the lady could distinguish the
lineaments of each face.

Suddenly she grasped the glass hard in both hands and looked steadily
at the injured man. A great change passed over her; she trembled
violently and her face grew ashen. Her fingers shook so that she was
obliged to support the glass against the window-sill. At length her
hands fell to her side and a cry broke from her lips like the angry
moan of some wounded animal.

"Oh! I must be mad!" she exclaimed. "This can not be--I fancied it!
This is one of my wild dreams!"

With a powerful effort she controlled herself sufficiently to raise the
glass once more. Nearer and nearer the group advanced; her eyes were
fastened upon it with a look of unutterable fear and agony.

"Laurence!" she exclaimed again; "Laurence in this place! Oh! I shall
go mad! They are coming to the house--they mean to spend the night
here!" The words broke unconsciously from her lips; all the while her
strained gaze was fastened upon the group. "He has been hurt--he has
fainted!"

She dropped the glass and started to her full height, striking her
forehead violently with her clenched hand, as if searching for some
plan or device, which, in her agitation and terror, she could not find.

"Fool!" she muttered, bitterly. "Is this your strength? Does it desert
you now?"

She walked hurriedly up and down the room, flinging her arms about, so
overcome that any thing like connected thought was impossible.

"He must not see me--I would rather be hurled over the precipice! He
must not stay here. Oh! mercy--mercy! if Philip should come home!"

She cast one more feverish glance through the window and hurried out of
the room, nerved to action by the near approach of pain and danger. But
directly she came back again, looking wild and frightened, like a bird
coming back to the branch where it has been wounded. She took up the
glass again, steadied it firmly. She was evidently doubtful still if
she had seen aright.




CHAPTER II.

A FACE FROM THE PAST.


The party of strangers were slowly winding their way across the plain,
and had arrived within a short distance of the house. The woman gazed
on them through her glass till the man supported on his mule became
quite visible to the naked eye; she then dropped her hand heavily, and
drew a deep breath.

"How white he is! There has been violence. He has fainted. See how his
head falls on the guide's shoulder," she murmured, sweeping a hand
across her eyes as if some dimness had come over them.

The lady was quite alone in her dwelling. The Indian women who acted
as the household servants had gone to the hills in search of berries,
and thus she was compelled to descend and open the door, when a summons
was made by the party whose approach had given her so much anxiety. At
another time, knowing, as she did, the lawless nature of the population
around, she would have allowed the besiegers to knock unanswered, and
go away at their leisure; but now she descended the stairs, trembling
violently as she went. She had thrown a black silk scarf over her
head, thus giving her dress a Spanish effect, and, unclosing the door,
stood framed in the opening--and a more remarkable picture was never
presented in the wilderness of any country. It was not that the woman
was so beautiful, in fact, but the color of her hair and the wild
anxiety in her eyes gave that to her person which no artist could ever
have caught. The guide, who had come in advance of his party, stepped
back in amazement as she presented herself, for it was seldom that the
people of the region had obtained a glimpse of her person, and her
presence took him by surprise.

The party were now within a few minutes' ride of the ranche, and a
weary, travel-soiled band it was. The mules were stained far above
their fetlocks with yellow mud, through which they had floundered
all day long; and the travelers, in their slouched hats, rude, blue
flannel shirts, and heavy boots, engulfing the nether garments to the
knees, were liberally bespattered with the same compound. The mules
were huddled close together, for one of the riders was supporting the
wounded man on his saddle; the other had dismounted when the guide left
him, and was leading the sick man's mule, while his own tired beast
followed submissively in the wake of the party.

Before the guide had recovered from his astonishment sufficiently to
address the lady, who seemed perfectly unconscious of his presence, the
party halted in front of the veranda.

The two gentlemen sprung forward to assist their companion, who lay
helpless in his saddle, his head falling upon the shoulder of the man
that supported him. With the assistance of the guides he was removed
from the mule and carried up the steps of the veranda. They laid
him upon a bench under the windows, then the two companions of the
insensible man turned toward the lady.

She had not stirred; her eyes were fastened upon the motionless figure
over which the guides were bending with rough solicitude; the strained,
eager look in her face seemed to demand an explanation which her lips
had no power to frame.

The two gentlemen moved toward her, struck, even in that moment of
anxiety, by her appearance, and saluted her with the courtesy which
proved their station and high-breeding.

"We owe you a thousand apologies, madam," said the foremost, "for this
abrupt proceeding; but our friend here had a hurt."

She started at his words, instinctively drew the folds of the mantle
more closely about her face, and said, quickly:

"No apology is necessary; in this region strangers consider themselves
at home in every house."

"I thought you'd say so, ma'am," said one of the guides, approaching
and looking curiously at her. "I s'pose Mr. Yates ain't to hum."

"No; I believe he is at the mines," she answered; then added quickly,
pointing to the injured man: "Has he fainted?"

"You see he got a fall," answered the guide, before either of the
gentlemen could speak, "a-coming over that rough pass on the mountain;
but I think he's only stunted like."

"I am afraid his arm is broken," said the elder gentleman.

The lady hurried toward the injured man; her face was turned away, so
that none of the party could see how ghastly it became. She bent over
the still form, dextrously cut open the sleeve of his coat with a pair
of scissors which she drew from her pocket, and took the injured limb
between her trembling hands.

"It is only a sprain," she said; "the agony and the shock have been too
much for him."

"He bore it very well at first," said the gentleman who had followed
her; "but fainted quite suddenly, just as we got down into the valley."

The lady made him no answer; she directed the guides where to find
water and spirits. Going into the house herself, she brought out a
large napkin, which she saturated with water, and bound upon the
wounded arm.

While she was bending over him, the man gave signs of returning
consciousness. She started back, and shrouded her face completely in
the mantle.

"Laurence," called one of his friends, stooping over him, "are you
better?"

There was a faint murmur; the injured man raised his head, but it sunk
back, and he was insensible again.

"Is there no physician near?" demanded the gentleman. "I am very
anxious. He is not strong, like the rest of us."

"You will find one at Wilson's ranche," replied the lady.

"How far is that?"

"Good seven miles," answered the guide.

"It will take so long to get him here," exclaimed the first speaker.

"Your best way will be to go there," observed the lady, coldly.

The whole party turned toward her in astonishment; hospitality is the
chief virtue of wild countries, and it was an unparalleled thing in the
experience of those old guides, to hear a woman so coolly turning a
stranger, sick or injured, from her door.

"My dear madam," pleaded the gentleman, "he can not ride; it will be
dangerous--death, perhaps."

"He will come to himself, shortly," she answered. "I assure you I have
proposed the best mode. I do not mean it unkindly. Heaven knows how
sorry I am."

The eldest guide absolutely whistled, and the men stared at each other,
while she busied herself over Laurence, although her whole frame shook
so violently that she could scarcely stand.

"Can't you give us a bed for our friend?" asked the gentleman. "The
rest of us will sleep anywhere, or go away altogether."

"No--no," she replied, hastily; "you must ride on, I say."

"Wal, I'm shot if ever I heerd the beat of that!" muttered a guide.

"The road from here is very good," she continued; "your friend will
suffer little; these men can easily make a litter and carry him."

"He's coming to," whispered the other gentleman.

The woman stepped quickly back, and when she saw the injured man open
his eyes, retreated into the room.

"How are you now, Laurence?" asked his friends, bending over him.

"Better, I think; I am dizzy, but my arm isn't so very painful. Did I
faint?"

While they answered his questions, the guides held a grumbling
consultation, and finally summoned the elder gentleman to the
conference.

"What'll we do?" they asked. "It'll be pitch dark afore long, and that
fellar can't set his horse."

"I will speak to the lady again," he answered. "I am sure she can not
turn us out."

"It's a queer house," said the head guide, "and that's the fact. There
ain't a place in Californy I wouldn't ruther stop at."

"I s'pose that's Yates's wife," said the man who had first reached the
house. "As often as I've passed here, I never seed her afore."

"'Tisn't often she shows herself," replied the leader. "But will you go
and speak to her?" he added, turning to the gentleman.

"Certainly; of course she will permit us to stay."

He went into the house, but the lady was not visible. He opened the
door of an inner room, and there she stood, wringing her hands in
wild distress. She turned at the sound of his footstep, and demanded,
angrily:

"What do you wish more? I have done all that I can for your friend."

"I have come to urge you to give us one night's lodging," he said; "it
seems impossible for us to go on--"

"You must," she said, interrupting him passionately; "you must!"

"This is very singular," he said, so startled by her manner that he
was almost inclined to believe her insane. "In the name of humanity, I
ask--"

She stopped him with an impatient gesture, went close to him, and
grasped his arm.

"I tell you," she whispered, "this place is not safe for you; get on
toward Wilson's as fast as your mules can carry you."

"Surely you can not mean--"

"No matter what! Sir, I ask you, for my sake, a poor, defenseless
woman, to go! I have done all for your friend that is in my power; you
only endanger his life--mine too, by staying here."

He bowed, stupefied by her words.

"Certainly," he said; "after that I can not urge you."

"I knew you would not; only go--don't wait an instant!"

She spoke with feverish haste, and her whole appearance was that of a
person driven to the verge of distraction by fear and anxiety.

"I can give you food," she added, "or spirits--"

"Thank you; we have every thing with us that will be necessary."

"Then go! Your road leads by the river--keep that napkin about his arm
wet with water, and he will do very well."

She motioned him away with wild energy. He saw the insane dread in
her eyes, left the room without a word, and joined the party upon the
veranda.

"Do we stay?" demanded the guides.

The gentleman shook his head, and, without waiting to hear their angry
expostulations, moved toward his friend.

Laurence was sitting up, and, although still very pale, looked stronger
and greatly recovered.

"Could you ride a few miles further, Ned?" he asked.

"Possibly; but can't we stay here?"

"No--no; there's a deuced mystery about the whole matter! But we must
start, or I believe that woman will go crazy; don't let's wait a
moment, if you can manage to get on to your mule."

The lady's strange anxiety had infected him; he felt an unaccountable
eagerness to leave that quiet old house far behind, and would rather
have spent the whole night in the woods than again encounter the
frenzied pleading of her eyes.

In a few moments, their preparations were concluded. Laurence was
seated upon his mule in the most commodious manner that could be
devised, and the party rode slowly off down the valley, the guides
looking back with muttered execrations as long as the old house was in
sight.

From an upper window the woman watched them start, shivering and white,
with her hands pressed hard against her lips to keep back the moans
that shuddered from her heart.

As the cavalcade reached a turn in the road, and began to disappear
from her sight, she extended her arms with a low cry:

"Laurence! Laurence!"

The words were pronounced in a whisper, but to her affrighted senses
they sounded strangely clear. She cowered into a seat, and covered her
face with her hands. No tears fell from her eyes; she could not even
weep--could only sit there, trembling at every sound, looking eagerly
out to be certain that the travelers had indeed disappeared, then
glancing up the valley, as if expecting each moment to see some one
approach by the path which led from the mountains.




CHAPTER III.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.


Night had come on; the full moon was up, filling the valley with a
flood of radiance and lending a mysterious beauty to the scene. As
the silver beams shot against the mountain sides, the streaks of
quartz and glittering minerals emitted long rays of light that shone
so brilliantly the cliffs seemed encircled with flame. Above rose the
jagged trunks of the fir-trees, looking like wierd shapes holding
counsel upon the summit of the peaks.

At length sounds from without broke the stillness--the tramp of horses,
the loud, reckless conversation of coarse men. The watcher in that room
only cowered lower into her seat, as if those tones had deprived her
of the last gleam of strength which had been her support during the
previous hours.

There were voices from the room beneath--drinking songs chanted with
such energy that the words were distinctly audible where she sat--the
ring of glasses, rude toasts and the tumult in which heedless, hardened
men are wont to indulge in the midst of a bacchanalian revel.

Very soon there was a step upon the stairs, which made the woman spring
to her feet and throw aside the mantle in which she had been shrouding
her face. The door was pushed open and a man entered carrying a candle,
which flared uncertainly in the draught from the passage. He did not at
first perceive her, and called angrily:

"Sybil! Sybil! where the deuce are you, I say?"

"I am here," she replied, with a coldness and composure of which she
had appeared incapable a moment before. "What do you want of me?"

"What is a man likely to want when he comes home tired and hungry, I
should like to know?"

"The women are getting supper; it will be ready very soon."

"And what are you doing up here in the dark?"

"This is the room where I usually sit, and it certainly is not dark,"
she replied, quietly as before, although her hands trembled nervously,
and the expression of her eyes betrayed something akin to absolute fear.

"Sitting in the moonlight like a school-girl!" he sneered. "I should
think you might have got over your romance by this time."

She did not answer; he approached, and held the light close to her
face, with a sneering laugh.

"Who has been here to-day?" he asked. "Now, don't tell that lie you
have ready on your lips. I know there was a party of men here about
sunset."

"Some people who wished to stay all night," she replied.

"Why didn't you keep them?"

"I did not suppose you would like it, as I knew you would be back with
a party from the mines."

"How innocent she is!" he exclaimed, laughing again. "By the powers,
Sybil, I have made a mistake! I ought to have put you on the stage.
That sort of talent would have made a fortune for us both."

"It is not too late," she said, with a certain eagerness.

"Oh, isn't it? Well, we can talk about that some other time. Just now I
want to know what brought that Laurence here?"

She tried to look at him with astonishment, but, actress as she was,
her craft failed for once; the lids drooped over her eyes and her lips
refused to utter the words she struggled to force upon them.

"Now stop that," said he. "Just tell the truth, or I'll follow him, and
he shall have a taste of my bowie-knife before morning. What did he
want? Make a short story of it, for I am hungry."

"He had been traveling among the mountains with some friends, and got
hurt. They wanted to stay here, but I would not keep them and they went
away."

"So far so good! You was afraid I should kill him, eh?"

"Yes," she answered; "but more afraid that he would recognize me."

"Then you didn't speak to him?"

"No; he had fainted. I was not likely to make myself known to any of my
former friends," she added, bitterly.

"As Phil Yates the gambler's wife? No, I suppose not. Well, he is gone,
so let the matter rest. Come, you're a rather good girl. I want you to
dress yourself and come down to supper--look your prettiest."

"Who is there?"

"Oh, mostly our set of fellows."

"Then I shall not go down."

"Indeed! I haven't time to make a scene. There are a couple of young
chaps fresh from the mines with lots of gold-dust. Now will you come?"

"Will you promise to conduct yourselves like men?"

"Upon my word, she is making terms! Yes, I will. I tell you, Sybil, the
gold we win from them to-night will help to shorten your stay here.
Think of that, and come."

"I don't wish any supper. I will come down afterward."

"So be it. Put on the pink dress with all those flounces, that I
brought you from San Francisco, and look young, and do try and be
handsome again."

"Shall we be able to go from here soon, Philip?" she asked.

"Not a day before I please," he replied, irritated by the question.
"Show any anxiety, and you shall spend your life here. I promise you it
shall not be a pleasant one."

"Have I complained?" she demanded, sinking her voice to a tone of
singular sweetness. "Have I not clung to you as few women would have
done? Can you blame me for longing to have another home than this?"

"It is natural enough; but patience, Sybil, patience."

"I have had patience," she muttered, while a dangerous light shot into
her eyes, "so long--so long!"

"You are a great woman, Sybil, I always admit that; but you know very
well that if you left me I should have hunted you like a wolf--aha! my
bird!"

The gleam in her eyes died into a look of cold terror; she extended her
hand for the light, saying:

"Go down to your guests. I will follow very soon."

He gave her the candle, laughing again in that mocking way.

"Poor Sybil!" he said. "It is hard to have old memories stirred up as
they have come upon you this evening."

"Stop!" she said, with a quiet resolution. "You shall not worry my
life out, Philip Yates! You know there is a point beyond which I will
not bear a word or look. Reach it, and though you murdered me, I would
desert you!"

He gave her a glance of careless admiration, but did not annoy her
further.

Yates was a remarkable-looking man as he stood there in his rough
mountain dress, which was sufficiently picturesque in effect to atone
for the coarseness of its materials and make.

He could not have been over thirty-five--very possibly not so much; but
a life of reckless dissipation had long ago worn the youth out from his
face. He had once been handsome--was so still, in spite of his heavy,
undressed beard and the desperate expression of his features. He was
tall and remarkably well formed, with sinewy limbs and a full, broad
chest. The exposure and action which he had experienced in that wild
California existence had increased his manly beauty in strength and
proportion, to make amends for sweeping the delicacy and refinement
from his face. The eyes were gray, not prominent, usually half vailed
by the lids, with a cold, quiet expression which could warm into
eagerness or flame with passion, but were utterly incapable of any
thing like softness or sensibility. The lower part of the face was
hidden by the flowing beard of a rich chestnut brown; but the massive
contour of the under jaw, the firm-set mouth, betrayed enough to have
justified a physiognomist in ascribing to him the hard, reckless
character which in reality belonged to him.

Without again addressing his wife, he left the room. She heard him
whistling an opera air--some reminiscence of the old life--as he
descended the stairs, and the notes carried her back to the pleasant
existence which had been hers for a season, and from which that man had
so ruthlessly dragged her.

The light which kindled in her eyes was ominous; the expression of her
face, could he have seen it, might have awakened a deeper distrust in
his mind than had ever before troubled him. It would have justified a
fear for his personal safety. There was all that and more in the single
glance which she cast into the gloom.

No murmur escaped her; she did not even sigh, as a weaker or gentler
woman would have done; but, knowing her destiny, looked it full in the
face and went forward to meet it without a tear!

She took up the candle and passed into her chamber, proceeding to
change her dress and follow her husband's commands in the adornment of
her person.

She knew very well what was required of her--a part that she had
often before performed at his bidding, and one from which her
moral sensibilities did not always shrink. This woman had simply
to make herself pleasant and agreeable--to sit by and converse
sweetly while those two strangers were cheated of their hard-earned
gold at a card-table. She was to bewilder them by her smiles and
conversation--nothing more; and, as I have said, she did not always
shrink from this _rôle_.

Sybil Yates was not a good woman, and yet there was something in
her nature which, under other training and circumstances, might
have dignified her into a very different person. Her phrenological
developments would have puzzled the most devoted lover of that
unsatisfactory science. She was capable of great endurance and
self-sacrifice, not only to secure her own interests, but she was
earnest in the service of any one for whom she felt affection or
attachment. Her nature was essentially reticent and secretive; she had
a faculty which few women possess, that of waiting patiently and for a
long time, in order to attain any object which fastened itself on her
desire.

But it is useless attempting any description of the woman's character.
It will best develop itself in the course of this narrative, in which
it was her fate to act a prominent part.

That she must have loathed the life to which she found herself
condemned is certain. Sybil's heart was more depraved than her
intellect or her moral character, and any thing like coarseness or open
vice was essentially distasteful to her. It was this womanly refinement
which had made the presence of her husband a torment. Probably hatred
of this man had grown to be one of the strongest feelings in her
nature; yet she was kind and forbearing--every thing that even a good
and affectionate wife could have been in her domestic life. True, she
stood in mortal terror of him--base, physical terror, for he had become
degraded beyond belief, and had more than once raised his hand against
her in his drunken wrath.

Still she clung to him--put her old life resolutely aside, and looked
only forward to the time when he would take her from that dreary
wilderness and go out into the world where she had first keenly enjoyed
the sweets of refined life.

She had fine talents, a splendid education, and was well endowed for
any station in which destiny could have placed her. Let me do her the
justice to acknowledge that under better influences she would probably
have been simply a far-sighted, diplomatic woman of the world, reducing
all about her to obedience by the incomprehensible fascination which
made all men who approached her admirers or slaves. Satisfied with her
position and influence, the under depths of her nature would have been
so little excited, that in all probability she herself would have been
forever unconscious of the dark traits which lay hidden in her restless
heart.

But it was useless to speculate upon what she might have been. She
was--alas! for her--Philip Yates's wife, far from any who could have
aided her, even if she would have permitted the slightest interposition
in her fate. Doomed to obey his commands, she was apparently ready
enough to gratify him, and managed, even in that secluded spot, to win
all the pleasure and cheerfulness out of her life which it was possible
to obtain.

She dressed herself, according to her promise. When her toilet was
completed, it was astonishing to see how brilliantly she came out of
the cloud which had appeared to envelop her. Her face caught its most
girlish expression--the large eyes grew luminous--the smile about her
mouth was playful and sweet. Those tresses of billowy hair, woven in
luxuriant braids back of her head, would of themselves have relieved
her face from any charge of plainness.

This woman put out her candle and turned to the window. For many
moments she stood looking out into the glorious night and watching
every effect with the sensations an artist could have understood.

Then, in spite of herself, back into the past fled her soul, and
the chill waves of memory rushed over her. She flung her white arms
aloft, and cried out in her pain. Once more that man's name died on her
lips in a passionate echo, which frightened even herself: "Laurence!
Laurence!"

A burst of merriment from below recalled her to the present, and
the hard destiny which lay before her. With the strong self-command
acquired in her strange life, she banished from her features every
trace of care; the soft light crept into her eyes again, the pleasant
smile settled upon her lips.

She took from the table a thin blue scarf, and, flinging it gracefully
over her shoulders, as we see drapery in Guido's pictures, passed down
stairs toward the room where her husband and his guests were seated,
already, as she could detect by the broken words which reached her ear,
occupied with the fatal games which had driven so many men to ruin
within those very walls.




CHAPTER IV.

TWO CONFEDERATES, IN COUNCIL.


Philip Yates and his wife were sitting upon the veranda of their house
one pleasant evening, some time after the events described in the last
chapter.

He was in unusually good humor and fine spirits that night. Probably,
during the past weeks, his successes had been numerous; and however
much his wife might have deplored the cause had she been a woman to
feel the sin and degradation, she could but have congratulated herself
upon the effect which it produced.

He was smoking and talking at intervals to Sybil, who sat in a low
chair at a little distance, looking down the valley with the earnest,
absent gaze habitual with her.

"Sing me something, Sybil," he said, at last; "it's deuced dull sitting
here alone. I can't see what keeps Tom."

"Do you expect him back to-night?" she asked, indifferently, more as if
fearful of offending him by her silence than from any desire of her own
for conversation.

"I did, but it is growing so late I begin to think he won't come; it's
always the way if one wants a man."

"You have no business on hand?"

"Not to-night; I need him for that very reason. What's the use of a
man's smoking his cigar and drinking his glass all alone."

Sybil smiled, not bitterly even, with a sort of careless scorn, which
would have irritated the man had he seen it--but her face was partially
turned away; he saw only the outlines of her colorless cheek, which
took a singular grace and softness in the moonlight.

"Are you going to sing?" he asked, after a moment's silence, broken
only by a malediction upon his cigar. "How many times must one ask you
to do a thing before you condescend to pay attention?"

She made no answer, but began at once a Spanish song, in a powerful
contralto voice, which rung pleasantly through the stillness, as if a
score of birds in the neighboring almond thicket had been awakened by
the beauty of the night, and were joining their notes in a delicious
harmony.

When the song was finished she began another without waiting for him to
speak, and for a full half hour she continued her efforts to amuse him,
without the slightest appearance of distaste or weariness.

Suddenly, another sound came up through the night--the tread of heavy
feet and voices, evidently approaching the house.

"Hush!" said Yates, quickly. "Somebody is coming."

Sybil paused, with the words unfinished upon her lips, and both
listened intently.

"It must be Tom," exclaimed Philip; "nobody but he ever whistles like
that."

He listened for an instant longer, then called out:

"Hello, I say!"

The echo came back distinctly, then a human voice answered the
salutation.

"It is Tom," Yates said. "I hope to the Lord there's somebody with him.
I'm frantic to be at work."

Just then several figures became visible in a turn of the path; Yates
went down the steps and walked forward to meet them, while Sybil
leaned her cheek against the low railing and looked quietly down,
humming fragments of the air which her husband had so unceremoniously
interrupted.

Yates joined the party, and they stood for a few moments in
conversation; then the whole group moved toward the house, Sybil
watching them still with that careless yet singular expression which
few men could look upon without emotion.

There was no one with the new-comer, except two or three of the men who
were employed by Yates and his friend about the place, more probably by
way of making a security of numbers than from any actual necessity that
existed for their services. These men passed toward another entrance,
while Yates and his companion ascended the steps of the veranda.

"Good evening, Mrs. Yates," the man called out.

She answered his greeting civilly enough, but without changing her
attitude, and began even whispering the pretty song, as if she found
something soothing in the simple words.

"You haven't had any supper, Tom?" Yates asked.

"None, and I am hungry as a wolf."

Yates went to the house door and called vigorously:

"Yuba! Yuba! you old fool, get supper ready at once."

When an answering cry assured him that his summons had been heard and
would receive attention, he brought from the hall a japan tray, upon
which were placed several bottles and glasses.

"You may as well wet your throat, Tom, while you're waiting for supper;
it's deuced warm to-night."

The man assented with a guttural laugh, the two seated themselves
near the table on which Yates had placed the waiter, and filled their
glasses, clashing them against each other.

"Will you have a little wine, Mrs. Yates?" asked the stranger. "I know
how you like it mixed."

But she declined the offer, leaned her head still lower upon the
railing, and looked away across the valley where the moonlight played,
far off in the very center of the flat, lying so unbroken and silvery
that it had the effect of a small lake hidden among the great trees and
luxuriant vines.

As the two men sat opposite each other, tilted back in their great
wicker-chairs, it was curious to notice the resemblance between them.
They might have been taken for twin brothers, yet it was one of those
accidental likenesses which one occasionally sees in all countries.
There was no tie of blood between them, or any reason for this look
of consanguinity. The chances of their reckless lives had thrown them
together, a similarity of tastes and a series of mutual benefits
preserved the intimacy which had sprung up among the rank weeds of
human life.

Dickinson had not the claims to manly beauty which Yates had once
possessed, yet his features bore the same type of countenance on a
larger, coarser scale; but in form or movement they were so much alike,
that when their backs were turned, it would have puzzled even a person
who knew them well to have told one from the other.

While they conversed, Sybil did not appear to listen, yet not a word
escaped her vigilant ear, and sometimes she turned her face partially,
and flashed toward them that strange look which so entirely changed the
expression of her countenance.

"But I haven't heard what kept you all this while up at the diggings,"
Yates was saying, as Sybil turned again toward the table. "I know you
haven't been at work--you're too lazy for that, and too wise; fools
work, and cute men, like you and I, catch gold easier."

Dickinson laughed, and pulled out an old wallet, rattled the coins
which it contained, and held up to view a shot-bag, apparently
containing a large quantity of gold dust.

"All from a quiet game under a clump of myrtle bushes," he said, with
another laugh.

"But that hasn't kept you all this time."

"No; I was over to Sancher's ranche. I knew there was nothing going on
here, and we are apt to get cross when it is stupid--eh, Mrs. Yates?"

"Did you speak?" she asked, as if suddenly aroused by his voice.

"I say Phil and I are not two angels for temper in dull times; do you
think so?"

"Oh, yes," she answered, good-naturedly enough; "fallen angels, you
know, twice degraded."

The men laughed heartily, and Dickinson gave her a glance of honest
admiration; she was evidently a woman for whom he felt sincere
respect--the sentiment which a dull rogue has for a clear-headed, acute
person whom he is willing to acknowledge as his superior.

"Ah, it's of no use to clash tongues with you," he said. "I learned
that a great while ago."

Sybil rose from her seat, and walked slowly down the veranda toward the
door, paused an instant, flung back some mocking speech in answer to
his words and Philip's laugh, and passed into the house.

"That's a wonderful woman!" exclaimed Dickinson, when she had
disappeared through the doorway. "I tell you what, Phil, there ain't
three men in California with a head-piece equal to that on her handsome
shoulders."

"She's well enough," replied Yates, carelessly; "it would be odd if she
hadn't learned a few things since the time she married me, and took to
life."

"You be blessed!" retorted Tom. "Her head is a deuced sight longer and
clearer than yours. I tell you, a keen woman like that is more than a
match for any man."

"She had better not try any thing of that sort with me!" exclaimed
Yates, sullenly.

"Nonsense; she doesn't want to! I never saw a woman more devoted to a
fellow, or so ready to help him along in every way. I tell you, I'm not
very fond of chains or ministers, but I'd get married in a legal way
to-morrow if I could find a female like her to yoke myself to."

"Wait till she's my widow, Tom," Yates replied, with a laugh. "Sybil's
well enough, but she'd play the deuce, like any woman, if she dared.
She knows better than to put on any airs with me. If another sort of
man owned her, he'd see stars!"

"Oh, you're cross as a bear to her--I'll say that for you; and you
never had any more feeling, Phil Yates--"

"There, Thomas, that will do. Drink before supper never did suit your
head--so just hush up!"

"Nonsense; don't let's have any of your confounded sneers. A fellow
can't speak without being treated to something of the sort, and I hate
it!"

He set his glass down on the table with an energy that made the bottles
dance; but Yates only laughed, and Dickinson soon smoked himself into a
state of reasonable tranquillity.

Thus much of their conversation Sybil paused in the hall to hear. She
lifted her hand and shook it menacingly toward her husband, while the
fire kindled and leaped in her blue eyes, rendering them ten times more
cruel and ferocious than anger can orbs of a darker color. But, after
that momentary spasm of anger, she passed on; and, as she walked slowly
back and forth through the silent rooms, the coldness and quiet came
back to her face.

"I've a bit of news, Phil," said Dickinson, after a few moments, "and
it is worth hearing."

"Tell it then, by all means."

"This isn't just the place. Who knows how many listeners we may have?"

"Fiddlesticks! The men are busy eating, and the women looking at them.
There's nobody to listen unless it be Sybil--"

"She never takes the trouble," interrupted Tom. "If we tell her a
thing, well and good; if not, she never bothers her head about the
matter."

"I believe that is true. But what is your news?"

Dickinson rose and walked toward the hall, to be certain that there was
no intruder within hearing; then he returned to the table and drew his
chair close to that of his friend.

"It's that which kept me up at the diggings," said he. "I wanted to
hear all I could."

"Well?"

"There's a chap over at Scouter's Point that's come on from San
Francisco to attend to some claims for Wilmurt's widow. He's sold out
her right, and he's got the stuff in his pocket--a good round sum it
is, too!"

"Yes," Yates said, quietly, holding his glass up to the moonlight, as
if admiring the color of the liquor.

"He is coming on with his guide and servant to our diggings on some
business; and there's several chaps who know him mean to take that
opportunity to send away a lot of nuggets and dust."

Yates set the glass down quickly, and leaned toward his friend.

"Does he touch these?"

He made a motion as if shuffling a pack of cards; but Dickinson shook
his head.

"Not a bit of use. I saw a fellow that knows him well. He's a New York
lawyer that came out here on some business, and took up this affair
just for the fun of the thing, and so as to have a chance to see the
diggings."

"Then what's the use of talking about it," exclaimed Yates, angrily,
"if he won't drink or play?"

"I don't know," said Tom, artfully. "I told you of it because I thought
you would like to hear. You are always complaining that we never have
any adventure, and that you might as well be promenading Broadway for
all the sport there is to be found."

Yates whistled an opera air, from beginning to end, in the most
elaborate manner. At the close he said:

"When will he be at the diggings?"

"Day after to-morrow, at the latest."

"This is Monday, isn't it?"

"Of course it is."

"I wasn't certain. One fairly loses the day of the week in this
confounded desert. Monday be it. On Wednesday he will reach the
diggings."

"Yes; he means to stay there a couple of days."

"On Saturday, then, he will pass through the valley."

"Exactly so, Philip. Your arithmetic is wonderful."

"No doubt of it. I may be professor in a college yet!"

"He will have to stop here all night, for he can't leave the diggings
before noon. Old Jones asked me if I thought you would keep him."

"What did you say?"

"That you didn't keep a tavern, and that your wife was mighty
particular. But if he was a gentleman, I didn't suppose either you or
she would send him on after dark."

"No," said Yates; "oh no!"

"There'll be a crowd in the valley," continued Dickinson. "There's more
gold been dug these last days than there has in months, and they'll
be down to the tents and over here to get rid of it, you may bet your
life."

"So be it," returned Yates. "They couldn't dispose of it to more worthy
people."

Then they laughed immoderately, as if the words had covered an
excellent jest. Before the conversation could be resumed, a dwarfish
old Indian woman, who was a miracle of ugliness, appeared at the door
and announced that their supper was waiting.

"Come in, Tom," said Yates, rising with the utmost alacrity. "I
couldn't eat any dinner for lack of company. You know Sybil picks like
a sparrow--and I shall be glad of something myself."

They passed into the house, and, at Dickinson's request, Sybil was
summoned to grace the board with her presence. She complied with her
customary obedience; but during the repast no allusion was made to the
stranger or the ambiguous conversation which had been held on the porch
a little while before.




CHAPTER V.

A SHORT RIDE AND A LONG WALK.


Two days passed without any event worthy of record. Every thing at the
ranche went on quietly enough, and a stranger happening there might
have believed it an orderly and well regulated family as any that could
be found in the State.

The two men held long conversations in private. Even Sybil was not
made acquainted with their cause; and although she was too acute not
to have perceived that there was a secret from which she was excluded,
she betrayed neither interest nor curiosity, evidently quite willing to
allow affairs to take their own course, and await the pleasure of her
husband and his confederate to hear a disclosure of the scheme which
they might be revolving in their minds.

On the third day the two made preparations to go up to the mines. Yates
owned a claim which he did not work himself, for labor was not a thing
he actually enjoyed, but he had hired men to work it, being able, even
in that rage for gold which had taken possession of all, to find men
who preferred secure daily wages to the uncertainty of working upon
their own account.

Yates was in the habit of making weekly visits to the place, so that
Sybil received the information of the departure as a matter of course,
and supper was prepared before sunset, that they might make their
journey during the cool of the evening.

The mules were brought out, and Sybil followed her husband and his
friend out on to the veranda to see them mount and ride away.

"You will have a beautiful night," she said. "The wind blows cool and
refreshing."

"You had better ride a little way with us, Mrs. Yates," said Dickinson.

"I would, but I have a headache," she answered, sweetly.

"Now, why can't you be honest and say you are glad to see us start?"
returned her husband.

"Because I never tell stories," she replied, with her pleasant laugh;
"I was always taught to consider it wicked."

"What heavenly principles!" sneered Yates. "I declare, Sybil, you are
too good for this world."

"Well," exclaimed Tom, "she's needed in it, anyhow! Smart, handsome
women are too scarce for her to be spared."

Sybil swept him a courtesy, and Yates laughed outright.

"Tom waxes gallant," said he. "You ought to be grateful, Syb, for his
compliments. He isn't given to flattering you women, I can tell you."

"I am very grateful," she replied, giving Tom one of her flashing
glances. "Admiration is as rare a thing in this region as Mr. Dickinson
considers bright women."

Tom was quite abashed; like many another bad man, he was never at ease
in the presence of a well-bred woman--and that Sybil was a lady no one
could have denied; it was perceptible in every word and movement.

Yates had to go through his usual routine of maledictions upon his
servants and mules; then he mounted his own particular beast, blew a
kiss to Sybil, and called out:

"Come, Tom, are you going to stand all night flirting with my wife, I
should like to know?"

"What abominable things you do say!" exclaimed Tom, coloring like a
girl, and making all haste to get on to his mule, by way of covering
his confusion.

"Oh, Mr. Dickinson," said Sybil, "I would not have believed you so
ungallant!"

"As how?" questioned Tom.

"You said that it was an abominable thing to admire me. Really, I am
astonished!"

"That wasn't what I meant," he replied. "But you know I never can say
what I want to, I'm such a stupid fool of a fellow--always was, among
women folks."

"There, Tom, that will do! You have got out of the scrape beautifully,"
said Yates, lending his friend's mule a cut with his black whip. "You
have danced attendance on the Graces long enough for one day."

The mule started off with Dickinson, at a sharp canter, and deprived
him of an opportunity to reply even if he had wished it. Yates gathered
up his reins, nodded to Sybil, and prepared to follow.

"When shall I expect you?" she asked.

"To-morrow night, at the furtherest. I only want to see how the men get
on."

"Good-by, then, till to-morrow."

He rode away, and Sybil stood watching them for some time; but her face
had lost the sweet expression which possessed so great a charm for
Dickinson.

"How long must this continue?" she muttered. "Will there never be an
end? Oh, Sybil--Sybil! what a weak, miserable fool you have been!
This is the end of your art and talent--a home in the wilderness, a
gambler's wife! But it shall change--oh! it shall change, I say!"

She clasped her hands hard over her heart, gave one other glance toward
the retreating riders, and entered the house. She went up to her own
room, and remained there a long time.

At length she rose and glanced out of the window. The sun had set,
and the twilight would have been gloomy and gray but for a faint
glory heralding the moon which had not yet appeared in sight over the
towering mountains.

"I must be gone!" she exclaimed. "I can not bear this any longer--I
should go crazy!"

She went to a chest of drawers that stood in a corner of the room,
unlocked them, and took out a small and richly mounted revolver--one
of those charming death trifles that Col. Colt has fashioned so
exquisitely. It was so elaborate in its workmanship, and so delicately
pretty, that it looked rather like a plaything than the dangerous
implement it really was. But, small and fanciful as it was, the weapon
would have been a dangerous instrument in the hands of that woman had
interest or self-preservation rendered it necessary for her to use it.

She loaded the several barrels with dexterity and quickness, which
betrayed a perfect knowledge of her task, locked the drawers again, and
hid the pistol in her pocket.

She put on a pretty gipsy hat, threw a mantle over her shoulders, and
went out of her room, locking the door behind her that any one who
chanced to try the door might suppose her occupied within. Down stairs
she stole with her quick, stealthy tread, passed through the hall,
and saw the men-servants at their supper in the kitchen, with the two
Indian women obediently attending to their wants.

She gave one glance, retraced her steps, hurried out of the front door,
and followed the path opposite that which her husband and his companion
had taken an hour before.

She was speedily concealed from the view of those within the house by
a thicket of almond-trees, and passed fearlessly and rapidly along
the path which she had trodden in many a long walk when the wretched
isolation of her life had become unendurable.

The night came on; the moon was up, giving forth a brilliant but fitful
light, for a great troop of clouds were sweeping through the sky and
at intervals obscured her beams completely, leaving only traces of
struggling light on the edges of the clouds.

The path was rugged and broken--a greater portion of the way led
through a heavy forest; but Sybil walked quickly on, disturbed by none
of the forest-sounds which might have terrified a less determined woman
from following out the end she had set her heart upon.

The wind sighed mournfully among the great trees over her head and
dashed the swaying vines against her face; but she resolutely pushed
them aside and forced for herself a passage. Lonely night-birds sent
forth their cries, so like human wails that they were fairly startling;
noisome reptiles, disturbed by her approach, slid away through the
gloom with venomous hisses; but still Sybil passed on, upright,
defiant, her hand clenching the weapon concealed in her dress with a
tight grasp, and her eyes flashing with the fearful enjoyment which
the scene produced upon her mind, to which excitement was necessary as
oxygen is to the air.

It would have been a singular study, the manner in which this woman's
determination overcame her physical cowardice when any cause for prompt
action was presented to her. Upon ordinary occasions nothing could
have induced her to enter that wood after nightfall; but, under the
influence of the insane desire which had been upon her for days, she
trod its recesses as untremblingly as the boldest pioneer who ever
crossed the Rocky Mountains could have done.

The greater portion of her way led along the bank of the stream, which
flowed in the woods after breaking through the heart of the valley and
forcing its way between the narrow of the mountains, that gave it an
unwilling egress. The waters rung pleasantly in the shadow, but Sybil
did not pause to listen, although her rare nature contained enough of
ideality to have led her away into many a romance, had she been thrown
among these picturesque shades when her mind was at rest.

It was a weary walk, but in her excitement Sybil thought little of the
fatigue. She reached the end of her journey, at length. It was the
ranche to which she had directed the party who came with that wounded
man to ask shelter of her. Sybil did not go directly to the house. At a
considerable distance from the dwelling was a rude hut where the family
of one of the workmen lived. Sybil knew the woman; she had once taken
a fancy to be very kind to a sick child of the poor creature, and that
favor had never been forgotten.

When Sybil knocked at the door, a querulous voice bade her enter, and
she went into the miserable abode. The woman was nursing her baby, and
two older children sat crouching at her feet, munching black crusts of
bread with the sharp appetite which follows a long fast. The room was
so bare that it could hardly be called untidy; but the appearance of
the female and her children was famished and miserable enough.

She started up--a haggard, raw-boned creature--with a cry at the sight
of her visitor, exclaiming:

"Mrs. Yates!"

"Hush!" said Sybil, motioning her back. "I want to ask you a few
questions, about which you are to say nothing to any living soul."

"I will," replied the woman. "You were good to my boy. I don't forget
that."

Sybil waved that claim to consideration carelessly aside, and went on:

"There was a party of strangers at the house one night last week?"

"Yes," said the woman; "I was up at the ranche when they come in; they
had been to your place, and said you wouldn't let them stop. I didn't
believe it."

"Go on," said Sybil, breathlessly; she had waited for nearly a week to
gain information--waited with the patience which was one of her most
remarkable characteristics; but now that the moment was at hand, she
could hardly give the woman time to speak.

"One of the gentlemen had a hurt--"

"Was the doctor here?"

"Yes; it wasn't nothing but a sprain."

"You are certain?"

"Sartin of it, ma'am. They staid here that night and the next; he was
quite well by that time, and then they went on--that's all I know about
them; I wish it was more, if it could oblige you."

"That is enough," said Sybil.

She appeared satisfied; she had walked five miles through the forest to
obtain those meager crumbs of information--braved dangers from which
even a man might have shrunk; but in that lonely, miserable life of
hers, it was something even to have gained those brief tidings.

A few more questions she asked: how the gentleman looked; if he had
quite recovered; if the woman had heard him speak.

"Pretty much, ma'am, and he seemed as full of fun as a boy; I guess he
didn't mind. Oh, them that's rich can afford to be funny, and folks say
he's got a mighty heap of gold."

Sybil made no answer to the woman's remark, but sat for a time in
silence, looking straight before her after her old fashion.

"I wish I could give you a bite to eat or drink," said the woman, "but
we hain't got a living thing."

Sybil roused herself at once.

"I am in want of nothing," she said; "I must go home now."

"Dear me, you ain't rested; it's a hard ride."

Sybil did not inform her that she had come alone and on foot. She
placed some money in the woman's hand, and said kindly, but with
emphasis:

"You need not say that I have been here."

"Nobody'll ask," replied the woman; "if they did, it wouldn't do no
good--I hain't forgot! Oh, ma'am, I ain't a good woman; I'm a poor,
ignorant, bad-tempered critter, that Joe often says would be better off
in my grave; but God bless you, that can't do you no harm, forlorn as I
be. God bless you, ma'am!"

Sybil hurried away to escape the wound these words gave her. Her better
feelings were aroused, and somehow that simple, uncouth benediction
jarred upon her ear; it made her more nervous than she had been while
threading her way through the lonely woods, and she hastened out into
the night once more.

A change had passed over the sky; great masses of heavy clouds were
piled up against the horizon and scattered over the heavens, through
which the moon rushed in frightened haste. The wind had fallen, and an
oppressive sultriness superseded the cool of the woods which had been
so apparent a few hours before. Once or twice distant peals of thunder
rolled afar off, and the jagged edges of the precipice of clouds were
colored with blue lightning.

Sybil struck into the path and took her way homeward. The feeling which
supported her had in a measure subsided, and the fears natural to a
place and scene like that began to force themselves on her imagination.

Since the day that Laurence and his party stopped at her house, she had
been half mad to learn if his injury had proved of little consequence,
and if he had been enabled to pursue his journey. There was no one at
the ranche whom she dared to trust; for well she knew, although he
had not again alluded to the subject, that her husband was watching
every movement, and that the slightest show of anxiety on her part
would be followed by a repetition of cruelties that since her marriage
and removal to that wild place had been of frequent occurrence. She
was afraid of this now, and fear took its usual result, craft and
concealment. She had borne her fears and suffering in silence up to
this time; but when Yates left home, so keen was her anxiety that she
could not have lived another hour without starting forth to obtain such
information as could be gathered; had the distance been quadrupled
she would have undertaken the journey, for in that mood no danger or
fatigue could have deterred her.

Long before Sybil reached the edge of the forest the clouds had
gathered force, and swept up to the very zenith; suddenly the moon
plunged down behind them, and the woods were buried in darkness. The
thunder pealed out again, rolling and booming through the heavens
like parks of artillery; terrible flashes of lightning ran like fiery
serpents through the clouds, and made every object fearfully distinct.
Every shrub and tree took spectral shapes. The path seemed to lose
itself in dizzy windings, and Sybil could only cover her face with both
hands and rush blindly on, terrified but still courageous.

Great drops of rain began to fall; the thunder increased in violence,
and the lightning flashes succeeded each other in such rapid succession
that the whole forest was wrapped in flame. Still Sybil hurried on,
panting for breath, half crazed with fear, and keeping the path more
from instinct than any thought or power of reason.

The storm grew stronger, gathered its mighty powers among the gorges,
and surged up into one of those fearful tempests which desolate
mountain regions so suddenly. The wind howled through the forest, the
thunder pealed and broke directly overhead, and renewed lightning
leaped and blazed before her very eyes till she was blinded and
stunned. There was no hope of shelter; the thickets which lined the
path might conceal wild beasts, frightened into seeking refuge within
their depths, but to her they threatened death; she could only totter
on, feeling her strength fail with every gust of the storm beat against
her. Many times her feet struck against fragments of broken rocks, or
became entangled in the rank vines, which brought her heavily to the
ground, tearing her garments and bruising her limbs; but in her fright
and anguish she did not heed the pain, and, catching at the branches
for support, would stagger to her feet again, and plunge on through the
darkness, growing more and more desperate each moment. Her drenched
garments clung about her form like a shroud--the cold touch made her
shudder; and when, in a sudden pause of the tempest, a great owl rushed
past her with his ill-omened cry, her senses almost forsook her in the
fright. She heard the cracking of branches, the thunder of giant trees,
as they came crashing to the earth, and their mangled boughs fell close
to her as she tottered on. Long briars, blown out into the road, tore
her face and pierced her arms; she shrieked with fear as she forced
herself away from their clutches, that were like the talons of wild
animals tearing at her life.

The tempest was of short duration; suddenly as it had sprung up the
wind died in the depths of the forest; the rain ceased; the black wall
of clouds tottered and crumbled against the horizon, breaking away like
mountains in a dream.

As Sybil left the wood, the moon soared up again from the prison of
clouds where it had been confined, and the night grew serene and quiet,
as if no blast had swept through it.

Feeble, weary and faint, Sybil toiled on until she reached her home.
The lights were out, the doors fastened, but she had means of entrance,
and made her way up to her chamber so stealthily that even the great
dogs who bayed and kept watch upon the veranda were not disturbed by
her tread.

Once in her room, and feeling that she was safe, the desperation that
had nerved her gave way, and she fell a dead weight upon the floor.
She had not fainted, but it was a long time before she could find
strength to rise; her limbs were stiffened--her very heart was chilled.
She could only lie there, staring out at the moon, while her troubled
senses heard still the roar of the tempest, and dismal shapes came out
of the gloom to torture her more sorely than the storm had done--cold
specters from the past that refused to lie quiet in their graves;
painful memories, blighted hopes--every sight and sound from which her
tortured soul strove to escape but had no power--she could only look
through her strained, glaring eyes, and watch the pale procession in
its course.

She shook off the weakness and that terrible fear, at last; struggled
to her feet, threw off her drenched garments, and crept into bed
chilled and trembling, only to renew in sleep the mournful images from
which she had tried to escape during her waking hours.




CHAPTER VI.

THE WELCOME THAT AWAITS RALPH HINCHLEY.


On the appointed day, Yates and his companion returned home. Sybil went
down to meet them as calm and smiling as though the season of their
absence had been fraught with no incident of interest, or no terrible
conflict had shaken her whole soul to its center. True, very little had
happened in acts; but the greatest changes of life occur when all is
still. Supper was over, and Sybil had gone up to her room, leaving the
two men smoking upon the veranda. There was a low, eager conversation
between them after her departure. At length Dickinson raised his voice:

"You had better go now and talk to her."

"Oh, these women," muttered Yates; "there's no telling how she may take
any thing."

"She'll take it as you would," replied Dickinson. "Be careful how you
tell your story--don't frighten her at first. Why, you may bring a
woman to any thing if you don't upset her nerves at the start."

"You are wonderfully wise," mused Yates.

Tom did not seem inclined to provoke a discussion, and after a little
hesitation Yates went into the house and mounted the stairs.

He entered Sybil's chamber abruptly, and found her, as usual, seated in
a low chair by the window.

"I want to talk to you a little," he said, "and I expect you to act
like a sensible woman."

"Let me hear," she answered.

"It's a short story," said he, bluntly. "To-morrow night, then, a man
will stop here loaded with money and dust enough to make us all rich
for the rest of our lives."

"Well?" The red lips lost their color, and shut hard together; that
cruel light shot into the blue eyes.

"It isn't well," retorted Yates, angrily. "He won't drink, and he
won't gamble; so what's to be done? Tom talks about taking the fellow
in hand."

"No, no," interrupted Sybil, putting up her hands as if to shut out
some horrible object. "I have not forgotten San Francisco--don't talk
of it, Philip."

"I knew that would be the way!" he exclaimed. "I was a fool to tell you
of it. No woman can be trusted when it comes to the pinch; but that
goose, Tom, said you would take it kindly, and be the first to hit on
some plan that would settle every thing."

"I will help you as I always have," she said, trembling violently; "but
not that--oh! heavens, no."

"There, there, you foolish child!" he replied, not ill-naturedly. "That
wasn't your fault or mine; the men got to quarreling in the house, and
we killed the other--"

"But it was so terrible; that dying man's face has haunted me ever
since--I can see his eyes glaring, and hear his breath struggling and
gurgling yet--see him clutching and tearing at the bed--"

"Don't, for God's sake!" he exclaimed, catching hold of her; "you'll
drive a man mad!"

She had risen from her seat, and was pointing wildly at the floor as
she spoke, but his voice seemed to recall her to herself. She sunk back
into her chair panting for breath, while Yates vainly endeavored to
conceal his own discomposure.

"You will go crazy in one of these abominable fits," he said, brushing
his hand across his forehead, and sweeping the great drops of
perspiration away.

"Then don't bring such memories back," she shuddered.

After all, the woman was the first to regain her usual manner, while
Yates walked slowly up and down the room, his mind divided between
the recollections her words had aroused and the plans which had been
arranged during the past days.

"So we must give it up," he said, at length, "and all for your
confounded folly."

"Do you call it folly?" cried Sybil, with a miserable specter of a
laugh.

"Yes, I do! There is one thing certain; your obstinacy and cowardice
will lengthen your stay here by ten good years."

"I am not a coward--"

"Call yourself what you please! I say, before we can afford to leave
this place, the youth will be gone out of your face, the brightning
from your eyes--you'll be an old woman, Sybil."

She did not appear moved by his threats, and, as was customary with him
when thwarted, he began to pass into a violent rage. She did not answer
the harsh words and maledictions which he heaped upon her; but once,
when he made a movement as if to give her a blow, as had often happened
before, she turned upon him with something in her face from which he
shrunk in spite of himself.

"Don't do that!" she exclaimed, in an awful whisper; "I warn you never
to attempt that again!"

The victory was more nearly won to her than it had been for many a day.
Yates dropped his hand and turned to go out.

"Well, let every thing slide," he said; "this comes of trusting a woman
with secrets! I must sit in my chair and see sixty thousand dollars
good slip out of my hands, and Ralph Hinchley go by without lifting a
finger."

Sybil sprung forward and clutched his arm; the face she bent toward him
was like that of a corpse.

"Speak that name again," she whispered; "speak it."

"Ralph Hinchley," he repeated, pushing her aside with a feeling like
absolute fear. "Confound you, what do you look like that for?"

Sybil still held him fast, and her voice rung out hollow and unnatural:

"Why, if you murder him, I will avenge it; so God help us both!"

"What is he to you? Do you know him?"

She forced back the whirlwind of passion, and stood up, cold and white.

"I never saw him," she replied; "but if you wish his money, I shall not
stand between you and him; his life you shall not take."

"Are you in earnest?"

She answered him with a look.

"But we have not settled on that; I propose to follow him--"

"Fools!" exclaimed Sybil. "To-morrow night the house and the valley
will be full of mad and drunken men. There may be half a dozen
robberies--will one more make any great difference?"

"What a woman you are!" exclaimed Yates, with that sort of admiring
dread with which a bad man watches a superior in coldness and courage.
"It will be impossible to say who did it! What a mind you have when it
works in earnest."

"There will be a score of people here wanting lodgings to-morrow night;
surely, your way is clear."

She waved him impatiently off when he would have pursued the subject.

"Go down stairs," she said; "I am tired of this. I am coming in a
moment."

He went out. She stood still in the gloom, while that terrible look of
ferocity came back to her face.

"Either of them, or both," she muttered; "I don't care! Hinchley is
Margaret's cousin--Sybil Yates will save him; but not till they have
gone far enough to prove the attempt. Then let them arrest Philip if
they will--oh! I am sick of this life, and do so loathe him."

She swept out of the room, cold and stern as a Nemesis, descending to
the presence of those men who sat together whispering of things which
they dared not speak aloud. They had excited themselves with drink; but
Sybil was not afraid to look the reality in the face--her resolve was
taken, she would not falter. If she reasoned with her conscience it was
thus: "The plan is not mine--I could not help it. These men are false
and desperate; I can guide but not defeat them. When it is done--oh,
how my heart beats; its chains are falling off. His petty sins shall
bind me here no longer."




CHAPTER VII.

ARRIVAL OF THE GUEST.


It was Saturday evening; the moon rose upon a scene which utterly
changed the whole aspect of the ranche.

Since early in the afternoon the road from the mines had been filled
with men, who poured down into the valley to seek relaxation after
their week's successful toil, and relieve themselves, perhaps, of every
ounce of the yellow dust which they had labored so hard to gain.

About the tents and cabins were grouped scores of men from every nation
of the civilized world. Long tables had been set out in the open air,
covered with such food as the owners of the huts could procure; barrels
of liquor were standing under the trees, ready broached, and moist at
the tap from frequent applications.

A great fire had been kindled near the cabins, at which quarters of
beef, joints of venison, and groups of wild game were roasting with
a slow success that filled the air with appetizing odors. In fact,
the whole valley took the appearance of a political barbecue or gipsy
encampment. The miners, in the slouched hats, red shirts, and muddy
boots, gave picturesque effect to the scene which a philosopher would
have condemned and an artist forgiven at the first glance.

The ranche had its full share of visitors; food and drink were
bountifully provided. Yates and Dickinson moved about among the men,
excited by liquor and evil passions, and urging them on to every
species of excess, like fiends seeking to drag down humanity to their
own base level.

Secure in her chamber, Sybil listened to the tumult and smiled quietly.
She really had something in common with Lucretia Borgia besides the
golden tint in her hair. She was neither shocked nor afraid; but had
grown so accustomed to such scenes that they no longer had any power to
affect her.

She was sitting by her window, and looking toward the path which led
from the mountains, so absorbed in thought that she scarcely heard the
shouts and hideous din which ascended from below.

At last she beheld two men on horseback coming down the declivity,
preceded by a guide. No trace of exultation lit up her features; the
face grew more hard and stern; the peculiar look which gave such age to
her countenance settled over its whiteness--that was all. She clenched
her hands on the window-sill, and watched their approach.

"Margaret's cousin," she whispered, once; "well, hereafter in my dreams
I shall be worthy her thanks--she was fond of him--shedding tears--yes,
yes, it is my turn now!"

The men rode slowly on, and as they reached the foot of the mountain,
and the demoniac scene, lighted by the moon and the glare of the
camp-fires, burst upon them, they simultaneously checked their horses,
and looked at each other in horrified astonishment.

"Great heavens, what a sight!" exclaimed Hinchley.

"It's like going down into purgatory," muttered the domestic. "Shall we
have to spend the night here, Mr. Hinchley?"

"You can't do no better," interrupted the guide; "it's the same thing
clear to Wilson's ranche. You'll do well enough at Phil Yates's; he
promised you rooms and beds to yourselves--you'd best come on."

The guide looked eagerly about as he spoke, his savage nature in a
state of pleasurable excitement, and anxious to join the desperate
crowds that were scattered through the valley.

"I wish we had stopped at the diggings," Hinchley said.

The guide had stepped away from them, and they conversed for a few
seconds in private.

"Luckily, nobody knows we've got the money and dust with us," said the
man.

"That is true. I dare say we are quite as safe in this crowd as we
should be alone with the people that live at Wilson's house. You must
keep a good look-out all night, Martin; I will see that our rooms are
close together. If we are assailed we must do our best."

There was no time for further conversation; the guide summoned them
impatiently, and they rode on toward the ranche, passing several
camp-fires about which were grouped evil-looking men drinking and
gambling, some upon the ground, some upon the newly-made stumps from
which the forest-trees had been cut.

Nobody paid much attention to them, and they passed on up to the house,
where Yates received them with a rough courtesy which was in a measure
reassuring, compared with the appearance of the crowds they had seen.

"You have hit on a bad night," he said, as he conducted them into the
house; "but I will give you rooms up stairs--you will be quiet enough
there."

"Show us to them at once," said Hinchley; "I am fairly sick with this
disgusting scene."

"I used to feel so," returned Yates; "but a man gets accustomed to any
thing in these regions."

He led them through the hall and up the stairs, the servant carrying
the saddle-bags and packages. They were shown into a comfortable room,
which, in comparison with the scene they had left, appeared like a
palace.

"You will do very well here," said Yates. "That next room is for your
man. I'll have some supper sent up to you. I don't keep a tavern, nay
how, but those rascals below would tear my house down about my ears if
I refused them admittance. It's nothing when you are acquainted with
California life."

"I'm blessed if I don't hope my acquaintance'll be a short one,"
muttered Martin.

Yates laughed as he left the room, and Hinchley threw himself into a
chair, wearied with many days' privation and hard riding.

"I guess we're safe enough here," said Martin.

"Oh, yes; I apprehend no danger at all."

While they waited for their supper, and listened to the horrible din
below, Yates went on to the room where Sybil was seated.

"They have come," he whispered, going close to where she sat.

"I know it," she replied, quietly.

"You don't feel afraid, Sybil? You won't draw back?"

"I?" she laughed, in her scornful way.

"Stop that noise!" exclaimed Yates, with a menacing gesture; "you laugh
like a ghost."

Mad as he was with liquor and evil passions, there was something so
unnatural in that sound that it half sobered him.

While they stood eyeing each other, the door opened, and Dickinson
reeled into the room.

"Come down stairs, Phil," he said; "there'll have to be another barrel
of whisky got out."

"You are drunk," said the other.

"A man needs to be," he shivered. "Good heavens, Mrs. Yates, how you
look!"

"Never mind that," she answered. "Go, both of you, and do your best to
keep that crowd of demons occupied."

"They are mighty good-natured with us," said Tom. "That idea of yours,
Sybil, of giving them the liquor, has set us up wonderfully; hark!
they're cheering Phil now."

Sybil flung up the window, and leaned over the sill, as shout after
shout arose like the yelling of fiends.

Dickinson pulled her hastily back.

"Don't let them see you--no woman would be safe! I have told everybody
you had gone down to Featherstone's."

"No, keep yourself close, Sybil," said Yates.

"Do not fear for me; go down stairs, both of you. I want to be alone."

"What time do you think--"

It was Dickinson who began to speak; she checked the broken utterance
with a look.

"At the time I appointed; half past one."

She looked from one to the other, but neither of those hardened men had
the nerve to meet her eyes. They shrunk out of the room in silence,
without another word being spoken, and once more Sybil was alone.

The riot and confusion increased. Men rushed about like demons,
singing, shouting, and clashing their cups together. The veranda and
grass in front were covered with poor wretches, who had fallen there
in their intoxication, and were recklessly trampled upon by their
companions. Yells and shrieks went up, shot after shot was fired,
knives gleamed in the starlight, more than one fierce contest occurred,
but through it all that woman sat at her window and waited, appalled
neither by the horror of the scene, nor the fearful thoughts which
surged through her soul.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE GAMBLER'S FATE.


It was long past midnight, and something of quiet had stolen over the
valley; yet that very stillness, taken in connection with the scene,
was more impressive than the riot and tumult had been.

The lower rooms of Yates's dwelling were in a state of confusion
beyond description. Glasses, dishes and broken food had been swept to
the floor to give place to cards and dice, which began the instant
the wolf-like appetites of the men had been satisfied. The floor was
covered with broken bottles and saturated with liquor and costly wines;
here and there darker stains gleamed in the moonlight, betraying where
some deadly fray had ended just short of murder. Men lay stretched upon
the tables in heavy slumber, huddled among the chairs and under the
benches, either asleep or so deeply intoxicated as to be unconscious
of their degradation. Here and there scattered gold shone out from the
stains and pools of wine, and a few wretches groped about picking up
stray nuggets or scraping together the saturated gold-dust and hiding
it in their garments.

In some of the rooms groups of men were still busy over the cards, but
even these had relapsed into quiet; nothing was heard but the rattle of
the dice or an occasional oath from the lips of some ruined gambler.

Out of doors the scene was still different. The whole length of the
valley could be commanded in one view--the smouldering camp-fires;
men lying stretched upon the trampled grass; poor wretches, wounded
in the quarrels, who had dragged themselves under the shadow of the
great trees to bind up their wounds or seek the slumber of exhaustion
and spent passions. Over all shone the moon, pouring down a cloud
of silvery radiance upon the repulsive scene, and rendering it more
horrible from the pure contrast.

At one of the card-tables Yates was still seated, while Dickinson
hovered about, unable to remain quiet for a moment, and, in spite of
his partial intoxication, haggard and pale at the recollection of the
deed yet to be performed.

A meaning glance from Yates sent him out of the room. Very soon his
confederate flung down the cards, and, relinquishing his place to some
other sleepless desperado, made his way among the forms huddled upon
the floor, and passed into the hall.

No one was watching; the stillness deepened each instant. Up the stairs
passed the two men, and entered the room where Sybil awaited them.

Few words passed among them, but the woman was much less shaken than
either of those bold men. They stood for a short time conversing in
broken whispers; then Yates turned quickly aside, moved to the end
of the room where a tall wardrobe was placed. A single touch upon a
secret spring, and the heavy piece of furniture swung noiselessly out,
affording admittance to the chamber beyond.

Ralph Hinchley started from a troubled dream to feel a strange
oppression upon his chest--a sweet, sickening odor pervading the
atmosphere--and to see through the open door Martin lying upon the bed
with a man bending over him and pressing a napkin close against his
face.

He started up in bed, unable to realize whether it was real or only
another wild vision. A blow from an unseen hand dashed him back upon
the pillow; but as he fell, with a smothered cry, he saw a white face
bending over him, and in the doorway a woman enveloped in a mantle,
which concealed her features and most of her person, uttering cries for
help.

He started up again with frantic violence, shrieking out his servant's
name:

"Martin! Martin!"

He heard a cry from the woman:

"Help! help!"

Then his assailant sprung upon him. Hinchley grappled him with all the
fury of desperation, and the two rolled over and over in deadly strife.
The man who had kept guard by the servant's bed escaped at the first
tumult; but those two men continued that fearful conflict. Hinchley
was a brave man; the belief that his life was at stake gave him the
strength of a tiger. He shrieked for help in a voice which rung through
the house and roused even the intoxicated sleepers below.

There was a sound in the halls of eager voices and rapid feet.
Hinchley's assailant tried to dash him to the floor and escape; but
those long, slender arms seemed made of iron, and held him pinioned.

At that moment the servant woke from the stupor, which had only taken a
partial effect upon his senses, and sprung up with a mad cry.

"Help, Martin, help!" shrieked Hinchley, feeling his strength begin to
fail. "Come, I say!"

Half stupefied as he was, the man comprehended his master's danger,
rushed upon their foe, and hurled him back upon the floor just as he
succeeded in escaping from Hinchley's hold.

This instant the door was broken open, and a crowd of infuriated men
rushed into the chamber, roused by those shrieks for aid.

A few quick words explained the whole affair. The troop pushed Hinchley
and his servant back, seized the man and dragged him toward the window.
The moonlight fell broadly on his terror-stricken face.

"It's Phil Yates!" exclaimed a score of voices.

The wretch had ceased to struggle; he felt that his doom was sealed,
and lay panting and passive in their clutches.

"This accounts for his good-nature," resounded on all sides. "This
explains the general treat. He meant to stupefy us and then shirk the
murder on some one."

"Where's Tom?" called one of the number.

A rush was made through the rooms, but the confederate had escaped.

"At least we will serve this fellow out!" cried a hoarse voice.

"Ay! ay!" they shouted, "down stairs with him! There's a blasted pine
back of the house--just the thing!"

They gathered about the shuddering man like wild beasts scenting their
prey. Hinchley in vain attempted to speak a word which might gain the
miserable man a reprieve. They pushed him rudely aside, dragged their
victim down the stairs and out upon the veranda, the throng parting
right and left, allowing those who held him free passage.

In an instant the whole valley seemed aroused, and hundreds of fierce
faces glared on the hapless creature as he hung powerless over the
shoulders of his captors.

There was a hurried consultation among those nearest the criminal;
terrible words broke from their lips which were echoed in husky
whispers by the whole crowd.

"Hang him! hang him!"

Again the crowd parted, and four stalwart men dragged the half
insensible creature round a corner of the house and moved toward a
shivered pine-tree that stretched out its blasted limbs between the
dwelling and the precipice.

"We want a rope," some one said.

A man rushed out of the house, carrying a long crimson scarf, which he
fluttered over the heads of the crowd.

"This will do famously!" he called. "It belonged to his wife--she was
huddling it over her face."

"Where is the woman?" they yelled. "Let's exterminate every snake in
the nest!"

"She isn't on hand--twisted herself out of my hold like a cat, dashed
off to the precipice, and the last I saw of her she was dragging
herself up by the bushes."

"Dickinson is gone, too."

"No matter; we have this one safe. Gracious, how limpsy he is!"

"Make short work of it, then, before he shows fight."

"Never fear!" shouted one of his captors. "Say a prayer, you villain;
it's your last chance."

The hapless wretch only moaned; fear had drawn him beyond the power of
speech. Closer gathered the crowd--he felt their breath hot upon his
cheek; hundreds of fierce eyes glared into his own; innumerable voices
roared out his death-sentence. It was a terrible scene.

They seized the scarf and twisted it fiercely about his neck; scores
of ruthless hands forced him toward the skeleton tree; the shouts and
execrations grew more fiendish, and over all the sinking moon shed her
last pale luster, lighting up that work of horror.

The man had spoken truly. Sybil Yates had fled to the hill. With the
first cries of Hinchley, she had attempted to escape from the principal
entrance. But the valley was sprinkled with camp-fires which must
betray her. In front of the house, lanterns swung from the knotted
cedar-posts, and cast their unsteady light on a crowd of fierce men
swarming toward the cries that still rung through the dwelling. One of
these men saw her, and, leaping up the stairs, tore the scarf from her
head, bringing a flood of hair down with it. She wrenched herself from
the grasp he fastened on her arm, plunged down a back staircase, and,
darting by the blasted pine, made for the precipice.

The face of this rocky wall was torn apart near the base, and the
fissure, which slanted across the face of the precipice, choked up with
myrtle-bushes, grape-vines and trees, stinted in their growth from
want of soil; but it was deep enough to hide that poor human creature
flying for her life. She ran toward the broken line which betrayed the
fissure, and, crushing through the sweet myrtle-bushes, fastened her
foot in a coil of vines, and crept upward with that scared face turned
over her shoulder, unable to tear her eyes from the crowd of men that
came sweeping round the house and surged up to that gaunt pine-tree.

They carried lanterns, and torches of burning pine, throwing a red
light all around and illuminating the very foot of the precipice.
Sybil crowded herself back into the fissure and dragged the vines over
her. Then, shuddering till the foliage trembled around her, she looked
through it, ghastly with fear but fascinated still. There was the man
who had been her fate, the cruel tyrant whose breath had made her
tremble an hour ago, lying across the shoulders of his late friends,
already half lifeless, yet shrieking faintly from dread of the death to
which they were lighting him.

The woman was seized with dizzy terror. The lights flowed before her
eyes in a river of fire. The specters of a thousand gaunt old trees
danced through it, and among them swung a human form to and fro, to
and fro, as it would sway through her memory forever and ever. She was
pressed against the rock, her foot tangled in the coiling vines, her
hands clenched hard among the tender shrubs--but for that she must have
fallen headlong to the broken rocks beneath.

All at once the tumult ceased; a frightful stillness came over that
dark crowd; men shrunk away from its outskirts into the darkness,
frightened by their own demon work. She clung to the vines, and looked
down dizzily; a feeling of horrible relief came over her. She turned
her face to the rock, and held her breath, listening, as if his voice
could still reach her.

It was near morning before the crowd around that tree dispersed. Then
she crept feebly down the rocky fissure, and stood trembling on the
trampled grass. One glance upon the pine, and she turned away, sick at
heart. A fragment of her own red scarf fluttered there--and--and--

Shutting her eyes close, Sybil staggered on toward the house, entered
the back-door, and descended the cellar-stairs. She took a lamp and
some matches from a niche in the wall, and passed on into the cellar.
She had been there once before within the last forty-eight hours, and
every thing necessary for her flight was prepared.

Connected with the cellars was a small natural cave, which had been
used as a place to keep liquor-casks. Sybil and her husband alone knew
of the real use to which this place was put.

Only a few moments after, Sybil stood in that cave so metamorphosed
that she might have passed unquestioned, even by her best friend.

She was attired in the dress of a Spanish sailor, her delicate skin
dyed of a rich, dark brown, her golden hair concealed under a slouched
hat, beneath which were visible short, thick curls of raven hair.

There was still other work to be done. Carefully shading her lamp from
the draught of air, the woman moved toward a corner of the vault,
pulled away several heavy casks, which it would have seemed beyond her
power to lift, raised one of the flat stones with which a portion of
the vault had been paved, and disclosed the lid of an iron chest.

She unlocked it, flung up the top lid, and the lamplight struck upon a
quantity of gold-dust and money which had been concealed there.

Yates had collected that store without the knowledge of his
confederates; even Sybil had discovered his secret by accident.

"Oh!" she muttered, impatiently, "there is a fortune here. I can not
carry it. No matter, it is safe--only let me escape this spot. Some
other time. It can not be found. Some other time."

She took out as many pieces of gold as she could manage to bestow about
her person without encumbering her flight; but even in her distress and
danger, her judgment and reason were capable of action. It was better
to leave the money in safety, and return for it at some future time,
than to overload herself so much that her flight would be impeded. She
might become so weary of the weight as to be forced to fling it aside.
Thus the woman reasoned only a few hours after that death scene.

She closed the chest, locked it and replaced the stones, piled the
empty boxes in their former position, and crept away. She extinguished
the little lamp, flung it into a dark corner of the cellar, and bent
her steps toward the opening, which was so overgrown with weeds that it
was entirely hidden.

She managed to raise herself along the broken wall, and forced her way
through the narrow aperture into the open air. Her face and hands were
bleeding from the wounds she had received against the sharp stones, but
she felt no pain.

She was completely hidden from the view of all those about the house by
a dense thicket of cactus and flowery shrubs, which formed a thick wall
for a considerable distance. Her pony was tied to a tree where she had
herself stationed him early in the evening. For the first time a look
of exultation shot into her face--she was safe now!

Before mounting her horse, she crept along the edge of the thicket to a
spot from whence she could command a view of the house.

The crowd was still rushing wildly about--she could hear their murmurs
and execrations. The moon had set, but the cold dawn cast a gray light
over the landscape.

Sybil turned her eyes toward the dwelling. She saw the pine-tree--that
one projecting branch from which a fragment of the silk scarf fluttered
yet.

After that momentary glance she started up, mounted her pony, and rode
rapidly away through the forest.

So the day broke, still and calm. The first glow of the sun tinged the
mountain tops, leaving the valley still in deep shadow. The excited
throngs moved restlessly about, and at length group after group started
away from the house, anxious to escape the sickening sight which met
their eyes; now that their fury was satiated, they turned in dread away.

The sun mounted higher in the heavens, shot dazzlingly against the
sides of the mountains, colored the noisy torrent, and played softly
about the old house.

Not a living thing was in sight. The sun played over the grass, rustled
the vines, and there, in the silence and amid the shadows, hung that
still form, swayed slowly to and fro by the light breeze that struck
the branches.

An hour passed, but there was no change!

Afar through the forest rode the fearless woman, seeking a place of
shelter. The last fetter which had bound her to that horrible life was
severed. Across the dark sea she could seek a new home, and make for
herself another existence, untroubled by a single echo from the past.




CHAPTER IX.

A CANTER AND A FALL.


It was a lofty, well-lighted apartment, fitted up with book-cases,
yet, from its general arrangement, evidently occupied as much for a
sitting-room as a library.

The easy-chairs were pushed into commodious corners, the reading table,
in the center of the floor, was covered with newspapers and pamphlets;
but they had been partially moved aside to afford place to a tiny
work-basket, an unstrung guitar with a handful of flowers scattered
over it, and various other trifles--all giving token of a female
presence and occupations, which alone can lend to an apartment like
this a pleasant, home-like appearance.

It was near sunset; two of the windows of the library looked toward the
west, and a rich glow stole through the parted curtains, from the mass
of gorgeous clouds piling themselves rapidly up against the horizon.

But at the further end of the room, the shadows lay heavy and dark, and
two statues gleamed out amid the gloom, like ghosts frightened away
from the sunlight.

In that dimness a woman walked slowly to and fro, her hands linked
loosely together, her dress rustling faintly against the carpet, and
her every movement betraying some deep and engrossing thought.

For a full half-hour she had indulged in that revery, all the while
moving slowly up and down, the fixed resolution of her face growing
harder, and her eyes turned resolutely toward the shadows, as if there
was something in the cheerful radiance at the other end of the room
which caused her pain or annoyance.

In that dim light, the countenance had an expression from which one
entering unperceived would have shrunk instinctively; yet a portrait of
the face, painted as it appeared among the shadows, would hardly have
been recognized by those daily accustomed to a view of the features.

Perhaps it was the gloom around which gave the face that look--cold,
hard, unrelenting force--and lent the eyes that subtle, dangerous gleam.

Some noise from without disturbed her reflections; she dropped her arms
to her side, and passed quietly toward the middle of the room. As she
stood for an instant by the table, the rosy light of the approaching
sunset played full upon her face; it scarcely seemed possible it could
be the one which looked so dark and cruel among the shadows only a
moment before.

An erect, well-proportioned figure, rather below the medium height,
yet so graceful and elegant that at the first glance one would have
pronounced her tall. She was still quite young, out of her teens
possibly, but no one would have judged her twenty-one--in the twilight
her face had appeared ten years older at least.

The features were finely cut, the lips a trifle too thin, perhaps, but
the complexion was wonderfully delicate; rich masses of light brown
hair, which in the sunlight took a golden tinge, were brushed in wavy
folds back from the smooth, low forehead, underneath which the gray
eyes looked out as calm and cold as though deep emotion had never
brought shadows or tears into their depths.

It would have been a very acute observer that could have read that
pale, secretive face. One might have lived years in daily intercourse
with her, and never believed her any thing but a quiet person, yielding
herself good-naturedly to the plans or amusements of others, and
finding sufficient content therein.

While she stood by the table, the tramp of horses sounded upon the
gravel sweep without; she moved to the window, and remained watching
the groom as he led a couple of saddle-horses up and down before the
side-entrance of the house.

Very soon there was a sound of opening doors, and a man's voice called
from the hall:

"Margaret! Miss Waring!"

The lady started at those clear, somewhat imperative tones, but the
summons was evidently not intended for her; after that involuntary
movement, she resumed her former attitude, leaning against the
window-sill with her eyes fixed absently upon the changing sky.

In a moment the door of the library opened, and a gentleman advanced
a step or two beyond the threshold, looking around as if in search of
some one. When he saw the young lady standing there, he said, hastily:

"I thought Margaret was here."

She turned as if for the first time conscious of his presence.

"I beg your pardon; what did you wish?"

"I am looking for Miss Waring; I heard George bring up the horses
several moments since."

"I believe she is in her room; shall I call her?"

"Pray do not trouble yourself, Miss Chase. I dare say she will be down
immediately."

"Here I am now," said a voice from the stairs, and a young lady very
pretty and _petite_ entered the room dressed in a riding-habit. "I hope
I have not kept you waiting, Mr. Laurence."

"I am only just ready," he replied, carelessly.

Miss Chase half turned from the window; the sunset rays fell upon her
hair and forehead, and, partially shut in by the folds of the curtains,
she made an exceedingly striking picture.

Margaret was buttoning her gauntlets, but Laurence caught the effect,
and was pleased, as any one with the slightest artistic taste must have
been.

"You have not put on your habit, Miss Chase," he said. "Don't you ride
with us?"

"I made my excuses to Miss Waring an hour ago," she replied, in the
sweet, calm voice habitual with her.

"She has a bad headache," said the young lady mentioned, looking up
from her task, "and is bent on a solitary walk in hopes of curing it."

"I thought you were never troubled with such pretty little female
ailments," returned Laurence, pleasantly.

"It very seldom happens," answered Miss Chase, indifferently, turning
more toward the window, as if she did not wish any conversation to
deprive her of a view of the sunset.

"It seems a little selfish for us to leave you to a lonely walk," he
continued.

"So I told her," added Margaret; "but she would not be persuaded."

"I would not prevent your ride for the world," she said, in precisely
the same unmoved tone. "I shall only walk to the gates and back."

"I am sorry you can not accompany us," Laurence said. "I suppose that
wretched headache will prevent me taking my revenge at chess to-night."

"Hardly, I think; it will go off in the cool of the evening."

"You are very obliging--"

"Oh, she means to beat you unmercifully," interrupted Margaret; "don't
you, Miss Chase?"

"If I can, of course," she replied, with a little deprecatory gesture,
as if the attempt were likely to prove a hopeless one.

"We shall see," returned the gentleman. "Come, Margaret, the horses
will get restless. A pleasant walk, Miss Chase."

She bowed, and watched the pair out of the room; when the door closed,
she took her old station, saw them mount and ride swiftly down the
avenue.

Very quiet and still she stood there--there was no pulsation strong
enough even to stir the lace upon her bosom. One hand fell at her side,
the other was pressed hard against the marble sill, and once more the
cold, fixed resolution crept slowly over her countenance.

It must have been a full half-hour before she in turn left the
apartment. She went up to her room, came down with her bonnet and shawl
on, and walked out upon the broad veranda which ran the whole length of
the house.

She did not follow the avenue which led from the dwelling down to the
highway, but took one of the numerous paths which wound among the
shrubberies. Sometimes in the full glory of the waning sunset, anon
a darker shadow among the other shadows that lay under the trees,
she passed, walking rapidly, as if anxious to find quiet in bodily
fatigue--then forgetting her purpose, if it had been present to her
mind, and moving slowly along, deeply engrossed in thought as when she
stood in the library an hour before.

It was already twilight when Sybil Chase reached the ponderous iron
gates which gave entrance from the road to the grounds. She seated
herself upon a stone bench a little off from the avenue, and gazed
quietly around with that observing eye which never lost the most minute
particular.

The air was soft and warm, the moon was already coming up and
dispelling the dusky shadows sufficiently to distinguish objects at a
considerable distance. The murmur of a little brook that traversed the
grounds and came out of the thicket back of her seat was pleasantly
audible, and the deafened cry of a whippowill sounded through the
distance. The moon rose higher, the repose of the spring evening
increased, and through the distance Sybil's quick ear detected the
tramp of horses, faint but rapidly approaching nearer.

She rose from the bench and looked up the road. She saw Margaret and
Mr. Laurence cantering gayly over the nearest hill. While she looked,
the girl's horse shied at some object by the road--started so violently
that his rider, evidently taken by surprise, was thrown to the ground.

Sybil Chase pressed her two hands hard together, a quick breath broke
from her lips, and her eyes looked out large and wild; but she made
no effort to go forward--never stirred from her attitude of strange
expectancy.

Before Mr. Laurence could dismount and go to his companion's
assistance, a man rode rapidly up behind them. Sybil saw him stop,
spring from his horse, and hasten with Mr. Laurence toward the lady.
Before they reached the spot, Margaret had risen; through the stillness
Sybil caught the echo of hurried exclamations, a gay laugh from the
young girl, which seemed to give assurance that she had suffered no
injury.

At that sound the lady whispered a few words to herself; then, after an
instant of hesitation, hurried toward the gates, pushed them open, and
ran with all her speed toward the foot of the hill.

Before she reached the first rise, the three had mounted and were
riding toward her; she was plainly visible to them in the moonlight,
toiling rapidly up the ascent, and apparently so overcome by agitation
that nothing but a desire to be of service preserved her strength.

"Are you hurt?" she called, wildly.

"Not in the least," Margaret answered, while Laurence waved his
riding-cap gayly in the air.

Sybil clasped her hands, as if in involuntary thanksgiving, and sunk
down upon the bank.

They rode toward her; as they reached the spot, she rose and called
again:

"You are not hurt, Miss Waring?"

"Not in the least, I assure you."

"Not even frightened, I believe," added Laurence.

"I thought she was killed," exclaimed Sybil. "Oh, that dreadful shying
horse! Don't--don't ride him again, Margaret."

The party drew rein near her.

"He meant no harm, poor fellow," returned Margaret.

"He might have killed you, nevertheless," said Sybil, with a sort of
reproachful anxiety.

She spoke rapidly, and appeared much alarmed; nevertheless, she found
time to steal a quick glance toward the stranger who accompanied her
friends. As her eyes fell upon him she gave a slight start, and her
face grew pale; but, with a strong effort, she mastered the emotion,
and turned indifferently away.




CHAPTER X.

THE GAME AT CHESS.


A few more words passed, then Margaret said:

"Miss Chase, let me present Mr. Hinchley to you."

The lady bowed slightly in return to the stranger's salutation, looked
keenly from under her long eyelashes, and turned again toward Miss
Waring, who, in spite of her assertions, was greatly terrified and
shaken, as Sybil plainly detected through all her forced spirits.

"By the luckiest chance in the world, Hinchley rode up at the very
moment Margaret fell," said Laurence.

"I was very fortunate in being so opportune in my arrival," replied the
young man.

"We have not even asked how you happened to get here so unexpectedly,"
said Margaret.

"I saw Dr. Thorne in town this morning, and he told me that Uncle
Gerald had been quite ill again, so I took the late train up--luckily,
Smith, at the depot, had a horse to lend me."

"Uncle Gerald is better," Margaret said.

"I am glad to hear it; those attacks get so much worse that I was quite
alarmed."

"He seems very much shaken by this one," Laurence said; "but the doctor
thinks he will soon get better; the warm weather is coming on, and that
always agrees with him, you know."

"You will stay a week or so, Ralph," Margaret said.

"As long as I can; it depends on my news from town."

"Miss Waring looks pale," interrupted Sybil, whose head was still
averted from Hinchley.

"Are you really hurt, Margaret?" asked Hinchley.

"Not in the least," she replied; but her voice trembled a little.

"She is frightened, of course," said Sybil; "who could help it? I am
sure she will not ride again this season."

"I think she is cured of such fears," returned Laurence.

"Oh yes," answered Margaret, hastily. "But let us ride home; it is
getting late, and uncle will want to see Ralph before going to bed."

The three rode through the gates, which Miss Chase had left open, while
that lady followed at a little distance.

"We are leaving her all alone," said Margaret, in a low voice, to
Laurence.

"That is true; and it scarcely looks civil," he replied. "Ride on to
the house, Margaret, with Hinchley, and I will walk with her."

"Very well," Margaret said, unable longer to conceal her nervousness,
and not sorry that she could have an opportunity to recover herself
before again enduring her betrothed husband's somewhat impatient
scrutiny.

The pair rode on; Mr. Laurence dismounted from his horse, and stood in
the avenue as Miss Chase approached.

"You look in this moonlight pale and melancholy as a knight-errant,"
she said, playfully.

"I am waiting for you," he replied.

"Indeed, there was no necessity."

"Does that mean you prefer to walk alone?"

"I am not much given to incivility, you know; I did not wish to detain
you from your friends."

"Oh, they will take care of each other," he replied. "I wonder you
don't say something about him--you are less susceptible than most young
ladies. Hinchley is a great favorite."

"Please do not slander my sex, Mr. Laurence, or we shall quarrel at
once."

"And you will conquer me, as you always do at chess! But at all events,
you can not be offended at my saying that you are different from
youthful females in general; almost any other would have asked twenty
questions in a breath about the stranger."

"But Mr. Hinchley is hardly a stranger," she replied.

"Oh, that is true; but I believe you have never met him before."

"No; but I have heard Miss Waring talk so much of her favorite cousin,
and Mr. Waring is always sounding his praises."

"He is almost like a brother to Margaret; I wonder you never saw him
when you were here before."

"He was in Europe," replied Sybil, indifferently. "I am sorry Margaret
received that fright."

"I wish she had a little of your courage."

"I have been accustomed to ride from childhood--"

"And are the best horsewoman I ever saw."

"I ought to deny it, but shall not. At all events, I am not in the
least afraid of Robin Hood nor of Sir Charles here;" as Sybil spoke,
she offered the horse one of the roses she held in her hand. "That is
a treat which the baronet appreciates," she added. "He isn't often fed
with roses."

"What a waste of sentiment," he replied, "to feed a horse on what any
man would covet."

"He is grateful for them, at all events."

"Perhaps his master would be more grateful still; you have not tried
him."

She laughed, selected a beautiful bud from the bunch, and looked at it
for a moment. When he reached forth his hand, she drew back the flower
with a gesture too pretty to be called coquetry.

"No; Sir Charles shall have that, and Miss Waring will like the rest."

He was a little annoyed; any man would have been treated with this
seeming indifference whether he cared for the person or not.

"You are determined never to be friends with me," he said.

"On the contrary, I have to thank you and everybody here for a great
deal of kindness."

"I am sure both Margaret and Mr. Waring feel much obliged to you; her
health is so delicate, that the house would have been in hopeless
disorder except for your attention, and the old gentleman considers you
perfection."

"It is very pleasant to be appreciated," she answered, gayly. "At
least, you ought to thank me; I kept Miss Waring from dying of regret
during your absence."

"Margaret would never die from any such feeling," he replied,
impatiently.

"I think where she loves, all her feelings are centered."

"Ah, Miss Chase, romance fades rapidly during a long engagement."

"So all engaged people tell me," she answered; "I shall take warning
from this experience of others. But we must walk faster; Miss Waring
will think us lost, unless Mr. Hinchley is charming enough to make her
forget our absence."

"I think Margaret does not care much for the society of gentlemen."

"Not in general, I believe."

"Nor in any particular case, I should hope," he said, quickly. "We
quarrel a great deal, as you know, Miss Chase, but I have never thought
coquetry among her faults."

"Nor I."

"Hinchley is greatly admired by young ladies," pursued Laurence; "but
he seems to care very little about it."

"He is very handsome--"

"Why, you hardly looked at him."

"I was quoting Miss Waring--incorrectly, however."

"What did she say?"

"That he had a very noble face--something above mere beauty."

"She was quite eloquent," he said, dryly.

"Oh no; but we were alone, and could not be silent."

"And so you talked of Ralph Hinchley?"

"Naturally enough, as he is her nearest relative. Are you blaming Miss
Waring or me?"

"Neither, I assure you."

"Mr. Hinchley is dependent upon his profession, I believe."

"Yes; I fancy he is not rich at all."

"There I can sympathize with him."

"Have you come to that?"

"Don't make me appear silly! If Margaret were here, I should say
something that you might construe into a compliment."

"You have never paid me one--"

"I never do compliment people whom I respect; that may account for it."

"But what would you have said?"

"That the men I have been in the habit of meeting since I came here
have made me difficult to please, so that quite young gentlemen seldom
strike me favorably."

"Oh, that is flattery--"

"It would have been to Miss Waring."

"How so?"

"A compliment to her taste in selecting you as a husband."

By that time they had reached the veranda, and as she spoke the last
words, Miss Chase ran up the steps, humming a song, and entered the
hall just as Margaret descended the stairs, after having exchanged her
habit for a dress more suitable to the house.

"Are you better?" Sybil asked.

"Yes; but I was terribly frightened, though I would not have Mr.
Laurence know it for the world--my timidity annoys him so much."

"He is coming," whispered Miss Chase.

"Please come and make the tea," said Margaret; "my hands shake yet."

Mr. Laurence joined them in the hall.

"Well, you are not frightened, now it is all over?" he asked.

"No, not much; anyway, I am unhurt."

Miss Chase threw back the hood of her cloak, and accompanied them into
the library; a glance at the hall-glass had convinced her that her
appearance was picturesque. She stood a second in the door, took off
the pretty blue mantle and laid it on a sofa; the breeze had given her
a color, and her hair an added wave, particularly becoming.

Margaret ensconced herself in an easy-chair near the fire, which had
been kindled to give an appearance of comfort to the room, although the
night was too warm to render it necessary. Miss Chase seated herself by
the tray, while Laurence turned to Margaret:

"Where is Hinchley?"

"Gone up to see uncle; he will be down in a moment."

The gentleman entered as she spoke. Sybil Chase was occupied, and did
not look up. He gave her a quick glance, started, and a perplexed look
passed over his face as if he fancied that he had seen her before, and
was trying to remember where; then it faded, and he sat down near his
cousin.

"Uncle has gone to bed," he said; "he looks very ill to-night."

"But he is better, I am sure he is," she replied, anxiously.

"I hope so," he answered; and, remarking her agitation, changed the
subject at once. "Have you been trouting, Laurence?" he asked. "I
remember your old passion."

"I was out the other day, but we will go again--an expedition for the
ladies. Are you fond of trout-fishing, Miss Chase?"

"Yes; I must plead guilty to the weakness and cruelty."

"And you, Margaret?"

"I shall like to go; but I never have any success."

"And you think it wicked, I believe?" he replied, carelessly, and with
a little irony, such as was often apparent in the conversations between
the two lovers.

"No matter what I think," she replied, smiling pleasantly enough,
although displeased at his manner; "I will not force my private
convictions upon any of you."

"But you will have a cup of tea?" said Miss Chase.

Mr. Hinchley went to the table, and taking the cup from Sybil, carried
it to his cousin.

"Hester has treated us to marmalade," said Laurence, laughing, as he
approached the table.

"Which I am morally certain you will spill on the carpet--won't he,
Miss Waring?"

"Of course; do keep him at the table, for the sake of the new carpet we
both admire so much."

"Then the whole dish of marmalade will be in danger," said Laurence.

"Miss Chase will wisely move it," added Hinchley.

"I think I must," added Sybil, "but there, you shall have a very large
spoonful; it is better than roses."

She put the conserve upon his plate, took up her flowers that lay on
the table, and added:

"I picked these for you, Miss Waring; they are from your favorite bush."

She gave them to Hinchley to carry to Margaret; Mr. Laurence ate his
marmalade and looked a little vexed.

"They are beautiful roses," Hinchley said.

"Very," Margaret replied, putting them carelessly in her hair; "you
shall have a bud to reward you for not having purloined the whole
bunch."

She selected a half-open rose and handed it to him. Miss Chase smiled
imperceptibly.

"May I have a cup of tea, Miss Chase?" asked Laurence, adding, as he
bent toward her: "You were over fastidious, you see."

Not a word answered Sybil--just the slightest elevation of her
eyebrows, the least possible expression of surprise about her mouth;
yet, by that mere nothing, she contrived to show that she disapproved
of the innocent and thoughtless act, but meant to keep any such feeling
to herself.

The evening passed pleasantly enough. Mr. Laurence forgot his momentary
vexation, the cause of which he could scarcely have told. He challenged
Miss Chase to a game of chess, and she consented.

While the two played, Margaret and Mr. Hinchley sat by the fire, and
talked of their uncle, the pleasures of old times, new books, and the
thousand other trifles, about which people who have no deep feelings in
common converse together.

Miss Chase lost the game, because she had made up her mind to be
defeated; but the next she won. Still, during the whole evening her
attention was not sufficiently fixed upon either board or moves to
prevent her hearing and seeing every thing that passed around her.




CHAPTER XI.

THE FEMALE IAGO.


The engagement between Laurence and Margaret Waring had been a family
affair, brought about principally by the romance of a maiden aunt, with
whom the young man was a favorite.

Edward had been under this relative's charge after the death of his
parents, which occurred during his childhood, and she had petted and
spoiled the boy as only a spinster could have done.

Mr. Waring, the uncle of Margaret, was one of Miss Laurence's nearest
neighbors, and the girl had been almost as great a favorite with the
spinster as her own nephew. Indeed, it was said that Mabel Laurence had
loved Margaret's father in her youthful days; but how that might be
nobody really knew, for the old maid wisely kept her own secrets, as
women, after all, are apt to do when there is nothing to gratify the
vanity in them.

But it happened that the boy and girl were reared almost like brother
and sister, and the two houses were almost equally homes to both.
Mr. Waring was a confirmed invalid, whose life seemed to hang upon a
thread, and Miss Laurence had always been in yearly expectation that
the girl would soon come entirely under her charge.

People are generally mistaken in such calculations, and Miss Laurence
was no exception; for when Margaret Waring was sixteen, the spinster
died in her arms after a short but violent illness.

Edward, then a youth of twenty, was traveling in Europe, and by one
of the old lady's last commands was to remain there at least a year
longer. When the will was opened, it was found to contain a singular
clause--one common enough in novels, and as the spinster had been an
insatiable devourer of light literature, it is quite probable that she
derived from thence the idea which was expressed in her testament.

Her fortune, which was a very large one, was divided equally between
her nephew and Margaret Waring, on condition that they became husband
and wife; otherwise, no provision was made for Margaret, a small
annuity was left Laurence, and the rest of the property was to be
employed in founding a hospital for old maids.

Now, I am not drawing upon my imagination for these details; this
was the will as it was actually written. Miss Laurence was convinced
that Margaret and her nephew had loved each other from childhood, so
that she believed herself acting for their happiness; besides, she
had English blood in her veins, and could not resist the true British
desire to display her own power and authority, even after death.

The year passed. Edward Laurence returned home when Margaret was
seventeen; the engagement had been regarded as a settled thing. The
young people loved each other--there could be no doubt of that; but,
after a time, the very certainty that their destinies had been settled
for them in a fashion so compulsory, led to all manner of disagreements
and quarrels.

Two years before the commencement of this record, Mr. Waring had been
obliged to go South for his health, and it was necessary to provide a
companion for Margaret during his absence. Some friend had introduced
Sybil Chase, and she spent the winter in the family. From the time of
her entrance into that house could be dated the first real unhappiness
of the young pair.

Sybil had been brought up by a bad, unprincipled mother, educated far
beyond what the woman's means seemed to permit, and for what end only
her own erratic mind ever knew. Soon after she left school, the young
girl quarreled with her mother, and for several years earned her own
living as best she might. We will not inquire too closely into the
records of that Bohemian life. It is sufficient for our story that she
at length took up her residence with Margaret Waring, just as that
young lady's engagement to young Laurence became known.

How it came about, Margaret could never have told; but before she
had been many weeks in the house, Sybil Chase had made herself of the
utmost importance there. She quietly relieved Margaret of every duty;
she read to her, she talked with her--not at all with the manner of a
dependent, which, in a certain sense, she was not, but as an equal and
friend.

When Margaret had time to think, she felt a certain unaccountable
repugnance to Sybil; yet in her society there was a charm which few
people could have resisted. Against her better judgment, contrary to
her principles and her common sense, Margaret acquired a habit of
talking freely with her. Sybil knew all the disagreements and troubles
which disturbed the house, understood perfectly Margaret's character,
and had studied Laurence himself with still more subtle criticism.

With all the wild fervor of her passionate youth, Sybil Chase became
fatally attached to young Laurence; yet so firm was her self-command,
so deep her powers of duplicity, that she gave no sign of the passion
that consumed her. In the depths of her soul she was resolved that the
man she loved should never fulfill his engagement; but just as she was
beginning to weave her meshes around him, Mr. Waring came home, broke
up his establishment, and proceeded with his daughter on a long tour
through the West Indies and Southern States.

Once more this singular young creature was thrown back upon her
mother's support. An imperfect reconciliation took place between them,
and she sunk gradually into her old life, which became more and more
irksome from contact with persons so unlike those with whom she had
been recently associated.

While her mind was in this restless state, she heard that young
Laurence had followed his betrothed to Cuba, in which place the
marriage had taken place. The news stung her to madness. In the first
paroxysm of wounded affection and mortified pride, she fell in with
Philip Yates, married him privately, and went away.

In two years she came back to her mother again, but to be the
protector, not the dependent, now. She had money, which was shared
generously with the old woman; but, in a short time, this constant
companionship with an unrefined and evil-minded woman became
unendurable. Sybil was in no state of mind to accept the dull life
presented in this companionship. She had rested long enough, and now
felt that keen hunger for excitement which follows prolonged inaction.

While this fever was strong upon her, she met Laurence in the street.
Little suspecting the passion that drove the blood from her cheek, or
that they had met before in far distant mountains of the golden State,
he upbraided her kindly for keeping aloof from her old friends, spoke
regretfully of Mr. Waring's still infirm health, and of Margaret's
protracted feebleness.

She choked down the passion that swelled in her throat, and inquired
kindly if his wife had been seriously ill.

Laurence laughed. "Wife?" he answered, coloring a little. "Oh, Maggie
and I are not married yet. The old gentleman says that we are young
enough to wait."

Sybil's heart bounded in her bosom. Her eyes flashed--she could not
altogether conceal the triumph of her joy.

"Are you never coming to see Margaret?" he said.

"Margaret--Margaret Waring? Oh yes."

"The old gentleman is seriously ill again. You ought to come. He often
says no one ever proved so good a nurse as you."

"The good old man. I will go to him."

She went to Waring's house the next day, and stayed there. Mr. Waring
was ill and selfish; he would not let her go away. She yielded with
apparent reluctance, and quietly commenced her work. By her soft words,
broken sentences, and subtle looks, Margaret and Laurence had become
almost completely estranged, and nothing but the persuasions of mutual
friends prevented their breaking the engagement which bound them. Sybil
looked on and waited, fostered their difficulties, and watched for the
moment which should secure the victory to her love.

She was greatly aided by the manner in which their betrothal had been
brought about, the consequences of which had been exactly those a wise
person would have anticipated. The romance of an involuntary engagement
wore rapidly away. Both were pained, and each blamed the other for
things which were at once the fault and the misfortune of a forced
position.

Margaret was proud and exacting, morbidly sensitive, and her high
spirit revolted at the idea of submission, often prevented her yielding
to her lover's wishes when she knew herself to be in the wrong. These
feelings rendered her fearful of betraying her fondness, and in
numberless ways brought pain to her own heart and that of the man who
loved her.

On the other hand, Edward was as passionate and imperious as she could
possibly be; his temper was violent, and when that was roused, he
gave way to every reckless word that anger could suggest, forgetting
them entirely when his temper cooled. Margaret could not forget; she
remembered them all, treasured up every cruel word, every scornful
sneer, like poisoned arrows wherewith to pierce her heart anew in her
lonely hours.

The young girl grew cold and unsympathetic, careless of exciting his
rage, but often taking refuge in an icy impassibility, which excited
him more than any recrimination would have done. A stubborn, obstinate
will developed itself in her character, against which the waves of her
lover's passions beat in vain; but that very resolution separated them
still further.

All this had been the growth of Sybil's subtle influence. For the
first period of their engagement they had been very happy. What
caused their first quarrel, neither could have told; the source was
probably as slight as it usually is in such cases; the effect had been
fraught with many evil influences, such as are apt to follow similar
misunderstandings.

They had reached a point where each looked back on the past with angry,
defiant feelings. It was like gazing across a troubled sea upon a fair
landscape--to glance from the present back into the beautiful past.

Had they been older and wiser, both parties might have done much toward
changing the state of things. A single honest effort would have swept
aside the heavy clouds which loomed darkly in the future. But neither
of them understood this, or would have made any effort of the kind had
it been pointed out. So they quarreled openly and avowedly, and the
fact that in each heart lay a great well-spring of affection, made
their quarrels more bitter and implacable.

Margaret was made to believe that her lover had ceased to care for her,
and wished to continue his engagement only that he might tyrannize
and command. Her health had become more delicate than ever, the bloom
of early girlhood was fading, and although still very lovely, she
had learned to think her beauty gone, and decided that with it all
affection had departed from the heart of her betrothed. Those feelings
and suspicions made her colder and more unyielding, until Edward
wondered he could ever have thought her winning or gentle. He was
irritated by the indifference with which she treated every attempt at a
reconciliation, and the violence of his temper increased in proportion
to the pain of his position.

They suffered greatly, those poor, blind creatures! Daily the cloud
which had descended upon their home grew blacker and swept them still
further apart. Indeed, they had reached that point where it would need
but a little thing to bring the tempest down in its wild fury--the
terrible tempest which should wrench from them all hope of happiness or
peace, which must desolate their after lives, and leave them stranded
upon a desert with no hope left, no memory unstained, no love in the
future.

The marriage of this young couple had been deferred from various
causes, the principal ones being Mr. Waring's frequent illnesses and
the delicate state in which Margaret's health had fallen during the
past year.

Laurence almost made his home at the house, and as he had no profession
or settled business, he found more time than was requisite for making
himself miserable, and gave way to all manner of repinings.

During her former residence at Mr. Waring's house, it had chanced that
Hinchley had never seen Sybil Chase, and her very existence was almost
unknown to him, before that agitated introduction on the hill-side.
Thus she had no fears of a recognition, or that her face would bring
back to him that fearful night in the valley ranche. With her heart
thus at rest, she went down stairs on the morning after his arrival,
according to her usual habit since the pleasant June weather had come
in. No members of the family were stirring except the servants, for
Margaret was inclined to gratify the indolence arising from ill-health,
and the family breakfast-hour was always a late one.

With her cheeks fresh as the roses, Miss Chase descended the stairs,
went forth to the garden, and proceeded into the rose thickets, looking
beautiful and bright as the dewy scene that surrounded her. Indeed,
as she stood there in her gipsy bonnet and muslin dress, a prettier
picture could not well be imagined.

She had a basket on her arm, a pair of scissors in her hand, and
daintily snipped off the stems of such blossoms as pleased her; she
pressed the gathered roses to her red lips till they were wet with dew,
took the fresh scent of each in turn, and dropped one after another
into her basket. While pursuing her task, she sung snatches of pleasant
tunes in a clear soprano voice that floated richly on the air.

Occasionally, in the midst of her employment, Miss Chase glanced toward
the upper windows or the hall-door. The first person who appeared
was Mr. Laurence. He saw Sybil and walked toward her. Miss Chase was
greatly occupied just then, and gave no attention to his approach.

"Good-morning," he said; "are you talking so sweetly with those roses
that you can neither see nor hear?"

"I am trying to steal their color," she replied, with an honest sort of
frankness that was very captivating. "Look at this bud, Mr. Laurence;
did you ever see any thing more beautiful?"

"Lovely, indeed; you perceive you were over fastidious about giving
away your flowers last night. Margaret did not prize them as highly as
you expected."

"What proof have you?"

"She gave one to Hinchley."

"Oh yes, so she did; but he is a relative, remember. I need not
offer you flowers in your own garden. I am certain it was the merest
thoughtlessness which made Margaret bestow the roses on your guest last
night."

"Who ever supposed it was any thing else?"

"Oh, I thought--that is, from the way you spoke--"

"What did you think?"

"That you were not pleased, if I must say it."

"I thought very little about the matter. I have no fancy for setting up
as a pale-faced Othello."

"Oh dear, I should hope not; there would be nobody but me to play
Emilie, and I should certainly run away, instead of standing by poor
Desdemona. But I have to beg your pardon for my absurd mistake."

"What do you mean?"

"For thinking you were displeased. I might have known you had more
sense, but I have seen men who would have pouted for a week over a
trifle of less consequence."

"Did you think it wrong?"

"Good heavens, no; but I am not a proper judge. I suppose every wife
ought to be exceedingly careful; but then, is a woman to be deprived of
every bit of sentiment or romance?"

"I don't think Margaret addicted to either. I should be sorry to
believe it."

"And I too. But I must take my basket of flowers into the house; don't
stand here fighting shadows, Mr. Laurence."

"I am not aware that I have been doing battle with any such
unsubstantial thing," he answered.

Miss Chase turned toward the house; he followed, but with a new train
of thought awakened in his mind. He began to wonder if he really had
been displeased at this trifle; certainly, he was not jealous, but he
would permit no impropriety. Had there been any? The simple giving of
a flower--she had done nothing more than that; and yet--well, he had
not thought much of it at the time, but Miss Chase had in a measure
convinced him that he was more impressed than he had believed. If
Margaret was going to add coquetry to her numerous other faults, his
life would be irksome enough!

He accompanied Sybil into the breakfast-room, helped her arrange the
flowers, and in the process they fell into a pleasant conversation. It
was a full half-hour before Hinchley or Margaret made their appearance.
A great deal can be done in that length of time, especially when
economized with as much wisdom as Sybil Chase was capable of employing.




CHAPTER XII.

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.


Soon after breakfast, Hinchley and Laurence rode over to a neighboring
town upon some business for Mr. Waring, leaving the two ladies alone.

Miss Chase and Margaret still sat in the breakfast-room, the latter
pretending to read the paper, from very weariness and disinclination to
talk, while Sybil held some embroidery in her hand, and, under cover of
that employment, watched her companion with keen scrutiny.

"I am seized with a fever," she said, suddenly.

Margaret looked up and smiled a little.

"What is the name of it," she asked.

"One common enough to us poor, weak women--I want a new spring dress.
If it were not for leaving you alone, I am half inclined to run into
town and make a purchase."

"Do not let me detain you," returned Margaret, feeling so ill at ease
with herself and every thing and person around her, that she was
pleased with this prospect of solitude.

"I suppose the gentlemen will soon return."

"I am sure I do not know," she answered, indifferently.

"You will not feel lonely if I go?"

"Pray, do not think me so foolish."

"You know I like to sit with you, Miss Waring."

"But to-day, go to town and shop if the mania has taken possession of
you. By the way, if you see any pretty pink organdy, you may purchase
it for me, and leave it at Mrs. Forrest's to be made up. I remember
now, a new dress is the very thing I want."

"I had better dress at once; let me see: the train starts at eleven. I
shall be in town at two o'clock."

"George will drive you over to the depot; you have just time to dress
and get there. You will be back to dinner?"

"Oh yes; before, perhaps."

After a few careless words, Miss Chase went up to her room, and as she
passed down stairs ready to go, opened the door of the breakfast-room,
where Margaret sat in the same dreary solitude.

"Have you any other commands?" she asked, pleasantly.

"None, thank you; what a fine day you will have."

"Oh, lovely; good-morning."

Margaret returned this farewell, and Miss Chase took her departure.

There the unhappy girl remained, and let the hours float on while she
gave herself up to a thousand bitter reflections. The bright spring
morning had no charm for Margaret, the merry carols of the birds upon
the lawn had lost their sweetness to her ear; she could only gaze upon
the dark shadows of her life, and mark how, day by day, it drifted into
deeper gloom. Her strength seemed to fail daily, and that of itself
would have been sorrow enough for one of her age; but she had sterner
troubles still.

How the promise of her girlhood had cheated her! The affection which
she had believed was to brighten all coming years, was rapidly fading
from her life.

Let it go! She would make no effort to recover either the hopes or the
love that she had lost. Laurence might take his own course; she would
not try to recall his wandering fancies. She believed that her heart
was strong enough to despise his love if again offered. There Margaret
made the mistake which all young persons fall into when the proud,
untried heart falls into its first love-sorrow.

While Margaret indulged in that mournful revery, Sybil Chase was on
her way to the city, smiling and pleasant, affable to every one that
came in her way; even the servant, who drove her over to the station,
thought to himself what a different lady she was from his silent,
haughty mistress; and the farmers who rented portions of Mr. Waring's
estate, and among whom she had made herself a very popular person,
smiled pleasantly as she rode by.

Cheerful and handsome she looked, sitting in the train, and being
whirled rapidly along the pretty route on her way to town. She reached
the city even earlier than she anticipated, and went about her
errands at once, with her accustomed straightforwardness. Nothing was
forgotten. Margaret's indifferent message was punctually fulfilled, and
in a manner which must have satisfied a much more difficult person than
Margaret.

When she had completed her purchases, Miss Chase took her way to a
retired and somewhat unpleasant part of the town. She had her vail
drawn, and hurried along as if anxious not to be observed by any chance
acquaintance.

She stopped before a decent looking tenement-house, ascended the
steps, glanced about with her habitual caution, to see that no one was
watching her, and entered the hall. She mounted the weary staircase,
which appeared interminable, passed through several dark entries, and
at length knocked at one of the doors which opened into a passage
nearest the roof.

Twice she knocked, the second time imperatively and with impatience;
then a querulous voice called out:

"Come in, can't you; the door isn't locked."

So Miss Chase turned the knob, opened the door, and entered a small,
plainly furnished room, yet bearing no evidence of the extreme poverty
which often makes the tenement-house so dreary.

A woman was seated near the little window, in a stiff-backed chair,
dividing her attention between a half-finished stocking and a number of
some weekly newspaper of the cheapest class, full of wonderful cuts and
more wonderful stories.

She looked up quickly as Miss Chase entered, gave out an evil, wicked
glance, which appeared natural to her, although the general appearance
of her face was quiet and commonplace enough.

"So you've come," was her only salutation.

"Yes; did you expect me?"

"I expected you three days ago."

"I was constantly occupied; it was impossible for me to get away until
now."

"You needn't lie," returned the woman, curtly.

"I won't," said Sybil, serene as ever.

She seated herself opposite the female and untied her bonnet-strings,
looking placid and at home, as she invariably was in all places and
under all circumstances.

The woman glanced keenly at her, and a strange sort of affectionate
look crept over her face.

"You're brooding mischief," she pronounced suddenly and emphatically,
as if she would permit no contradiction.

"What makes you think so?" Sybil asked.

"'Cause you grow good-looking; when you get that bright, contented
look, I always know there's something in the wind."

"You are very wise," replied Sybil, evincing no displeasure at the
accusation, which would have struck many persons unpleasantly.

"Yes; I ain't blind; I've generally kept my eyes open going through
this world."

"That is the only way, if one does not wish to run against the wall."

"As you did once," retorted the woman, with a chuckle; "you know you
did that, cute as you think yourself."

"I have not forgotten it," replied Sybil, coolly; "the hurt taught me
to keep my eyes open too."

"Learned you to look before you leap," said the woman. "Well, I guess
you owe a good deal to my lessons."

Sybil did not answer, but shrugged her shoulders slightly, and gazed
out of the window, occupied with her own reflections.

"Now don't act as if I was a log of wood," said the woman, fretfully;
"there's nothing makes me so mad."

"I was waiting to hear what you would say next."

"What did you come for?"

"To see you, of course."

"Well, look at me; I don't charge any thing for the sight! I used to be
worth the trouble of turning round to see, I did; I was better looking
than you are or ever will be--but that's all over. Just say what you're
after now."

"I came because I thought you wanted something."

"You should have brought me money three days ago; I hate to be
behindhand with my rent."

"Surely you ought to have had enough for that; you know how little
money I possess...."

"Fiddle-de-dee! Ask that Laurence for some."

"I can not do that; you must see how impossible it is."

"There's nothing impossible where money is concerned. But no matter,
take your own way."

"It is growing clear now," said Sybil.

"Time it did; you've made mistakes enough."

Sybil did not appear desirous of pursuing the conversation. She took
out her purse, counted several gold pieces into her palm, while the
woman watched her with covetous eyes.

"That will serve you until I come again," she said, extending her hand.

The woman clutched the money eagerly, counted it twice to be certain
there was no mistake, then rose from her seat and went to an old bureau
in a corner of the room. After fumbling in her pocket for a while,
and pulling out a heterogeneous mass of things, a dingy red silk
handkerchief among the rest, she produced a small key, unlocked one of
the drawers, and put the gold carefully away in a buckskin bag; then
she locked the bureau again, and returned to her seat.

"That is safe," she said, more complacently; the touch of the money
had evidently mollified her feelings. "Now, let's talk about something
else--about your plans, say."

"I can not answer your questions; every thing is dark yet--a few months
will decide."

"Don't you get careless, you know."

"There is no fear; I am not a child."

"No; and you've learned by the hardest."

"Don't ever speak of the past; I can bury it now--I have buried it."

"Wal, it's a dead friend I guess you ain't sorry to be rid of."

Sybil looked white; her eyes had a strained, unnatural expression, and
her hands clenched together with the old force and tightness.

"It is all over--all over."

"Nothing to be afraid of, I s'pose, unless you believe in ghosts or
such things."

Sybil's face changed; she dropped her hands; the color came back to her
cheek--she laughed outright, a defiant, mocking sound.

"Not at all; no ghost will trouble me--not even _his_."

"Tell me a little how things go on."

The woman drew closer to her visitor, and inclined her head to listen
attentively. Sybil talked for many moments in a voice sunk almost to
a whisper, as if dropping hints to which she dared not give utterance
aloud.

Her companion noted every word and movement, while a bad, malignant
expression crept over her face, till it seemed impossible that it
should ever have looked comely or pleasant. Sometimes she nodded her
head approvingly; once she laughed outright. Sybil put up her hand
to check the merriment, which would have grated harshly upon a less
well-attuned ear than hers.

"I must go now," Miss Chase said, at last; "I shall not get back by
dinner-time as it is."

"I ought to be there," the woman exclaimed; "there is so much I could
do."

"I know that, if you would only manage to control your temper."

"Never you fear me; I can do that easy enough when there is any thing
to be gained by it."

"One never knows what may happen. Always keep yourself in readiness to
obey my summons."

"I could start at any moment."

"We shall be obliged to wait; an opportunity may arise by which I could
introduce you to the house."

"Make the opportunity; a smart woman can always do that."

"Ah! you have not my prudence."

"I guess you learned it lately; but we won't quarrel. If you want me, I
will come."

"You would not care in what way; you would not mind the occupation?"

"Lord bless you, no; I'm good at any thing--general housework, cooking;
it's all fish that comes to my basket."

"Good-by, now," said Sybil; "I shall miss the train if I stop another
moment."

The woman followed her to the door, whispered some added parting
advice, and watched her disappear down the stairs. Then she returned
to the room and set about preparing herself a cup of tea, chuckling
occasionally in a sharp way, like a meditative macaw, and looking
altogether so unpleasant that a timid person would have been reluctant
to remain alone in the chamber with her.

As Miss Chase predicted, dinner was over when she reached Mr. Waring's
residence. She quietly disposed of her own repast which the housekeeper
had condescended to set aside for her, and then, after changing her
dress, went down into the library.

Mr. Laurence was sitting there alone, looking sullen and discontented
enough; but he brightened somewhat when she entered, and greeted her
cheerfully.

"I am glad you have come; I began to think I should have to spend the
evening by myself, as Hinchley is busy with his uncle."

"Where is Miss Waring?" Sybil asked.

"In her own room, pouting or crying, according to the stage her
ill-humor has reached."

Sybil sighed and shook her head.

"Are you blaming me?" he asked. "It was not my fault that we quarreled,
but Margaret would provoke a saint! I could not tell to save my life,
what the disturbance began about. I think I said one could not breathe
in this room for the flowers; with that she worked herself into a
violent rage, as if I had committed some unpardonable enormity."

"You should be patient," said Miss Chase.

"I know my temper is bad, but she seems to do every thing in her power
to excite it. Why should you always blame me?"

"Am I blaming you?" she asked, softly. "It is not my place to express
any opinion upon your differences with Miss Waring."

"I don't see why; both Margaret and myself regard you as a friend.
I know she tells you all her troubles freely enough; why should you
refuse to listen to my part of the story?"

"I do not refuse," she answered, sighing heavily; "but it pains me to
know that you disagree so terribly."

"Disagree is a mild word; I admire your politeness; you know we quarrel
like two hawks in a cage."

Miss Chase sighed again. This deep breath expressed as much sympathy as
words could have done, and was far safer just there.

"The truth is," exclaimed Laurence, suddenly, "Margaret does not love
me; there is the foundation of our troubles."

"Are you not judging hastily?"

"No; I have felt it for a long time; I am certain of it now. Tell me:
do you believe any woman who loved a man would act as she does? Do you
consider that she conducts herself as an engaged person should?"

"You must not ask me such questions; it would be wrong in me to answer."

"At least you can say if you think she loves me?"

Miss Chase hesitated.

"Speak the truth," said he, violently.

"No," returned Sybil, in a low whisper.

"Every one sees it," continued Lawrence; "I knew you did. She is
hard-hearted and ungrateful."

"Do not be harsh--"

"How can I help it," he interrupted; "she has wrecked my life--turned
it into a curse. I have no hope--not a friend."

A tear fell from Sybil's downcast lashes, and rolled slowly down
her cheek; she stole one glance, full of beautiful sympathy toward
him--that was all.

"I believe you pity me," he said; "of late I have begun to hope it. You
will be my friend; say, will you not try to help me?"

"So far as it is in my power, heaven knows I will. But I am a woman; I
must be so cautious. Indeed, I would not incur Margaret's displeasure
or that of Mr. Waring for the world."

"She would hate any one who feels kindly toward me!" He broke off
abruptly, and gave himself up to a gloomy train of thought which took
him far away from his companion; it did not suit Sybil to have it
continue.

"You have had no tea," she said; "shall I order it brought up?"

"If you will stay and take it with me."

"First, let me inquire if Miss Waring will come down."

"Leave her where she is; I have had contention enough."

But Miss Chase kept her worldly wisdom in view. She went up stairs and
found Margaret lying on the bed, but the unhappy girl could not be
induced to rise.

"I don't wish any tea," she said; "I am going to sleep."

"Then I will have mine in my room."

"Please go down," said Margaret; "some of those tiresome people from
the village will be certain to call, and if you are not ready to
receive them, I shall be dragged out. I shan't take the trouble for
Ralph or Mr. Laurence."

Willing to oblige, Miss Chase consented, and returned to the angry
lover, only to exasperate his discontent.

No one did call that evening. Hinchley did not appear, and the two
spent it in sad, earnest conversation. Edward Laurence retired to
his room more than ever offended with Margaret, and convinced that
Sybil Chase was the only person in the world who understood or pitied
him--a high-minded, clear-sighted woman, whom he respected, and
whose friendship appeared better worth having than the deepest love
of ordinary women. Sybil sat pondering over the fire. In all the
mischief which she had wrought, there was no possibility of tracing
her influence; she had told no bungling falsehoods to be covered up or
explained away; had committed no little feminine indiscretions at which
the mistress of a household could cavil. Indeed, nothing could be more
quiet and respectable than her whole conduct. She was very kind and
useful in every respect. She made the house far more comfortable than
it had ever been before, and was always ready to mediate in a quiet
way between the lovers in their quarrels, regretting, in a Christian
manner, her inability to check them altogether; but with all her
precautions, she had a difficult part to act, and it caused her much
anxiety.




CHAPTER XIII.

HIGHCLIFF.


Of course that last quarrel between Laurence and Margaret was put
aside after a time, as so many previous difficulties had been; but it
left a more hurtful impression upon the minds of both than any former
disagreement had ever been able to produce.

A party of guests, invited several months before, were staying at the
house for a week, and in the general gayety, both Laurence and Margaret
almost forgot their troubles. There was nothing approaching confidence
between them; they were civil and polite, but avoided explanations. In
the haughty sensitiveness of young hearts, neither party was in a mood
for taking the first step toward a reconciliation.

Parties and expeditions of all sorts were planned and carried out,
into which Margaret entered with a feverish excitement which increased
her lover's anger; he could not understand that her gayety was a vexed
foam, rising and frothing over the deep wretchedness within.

Ralph Hinchley was still at the house, and his quick perceptions made
him understand, more clearly than any one else, the state of feeling
between the unhappy pair.

He was an honorable, high principled man, and not for the world would
he have been guilty of an act which could produce new discord with
those already divided hearts. But he pitied Laurence, and his sympathy
for Margaret made him unusually kind and gentle. But Miss Chase watched
every movement or word with her lynx-eyes, and turned each into the
shape that best suited her purpose.

Laurence made Sybil his confidant now with the most perfect freedom; he
told her all his suspicions, his unhappiness and fears; she gave him
back the most touching sympathy, and such advice as proved satisfactory
to his feelings in every respect.

Margaret was too much preoccupied to observe any thing of this.
Miss Chase was so wary and prudent, that she would have averted the
suspicions of a much more jealous person than her young hostess.

Edward Laurence, even in his anger and wretchedness, would have shrunk
from any deliberate wrong to Margaret; but, day by day, Sybil's
influence over him increased--day by day her wiles produced their
effect, and placed him more completely in her dangerous power.

They were conversing one morning in the breakfast-room before any
one else was down--for Miss Chase persevered in her habit of early
rising, and many long talks and rambles were taken with an unexpressed
understanding of which no one in the house had the slightest idea.

They were talking of Margaret; she was often the subject of their
conversations, while she lay in her darkened chamber, trying to forget
her ills in broken slumber, which the dreary watches of the night had
refused to give.

"How much Miss Waring enjoys society," Sybil said; "I am glad that
these people happened to come just now--she was miserable before."

"Then you pity her for the misfortunes she has brought upon herself?"

"I pity her all the more on that account."

"I am not so charitable."

"At all events, she is gay and happy now," pursued Sybil.

"Yes; she can be pleasant to all the world except me," cried Laurence,
bitterly.

"I will not permit you to be unjust," returned Miss Chase.

"You can not deny that she is heartless and capricious; you admitted as
much the other day."

"Did I? Then it was very wrong in me."

"Ah, you have no sympathy with my misery."

"Do not reproach me in this way; you know it is unjust."

"But did you not own you considered her cold and hard?"

"No; I admitted that she was capricious."

"But not heartless?"

"Not at all; I believe her capable of strong, even intense feeling."

"I have never witnessed any exhibition of it."

"I hope she will always remain in ignorance of it herself."

"Why?"

"Because it would place her in a very unhappy position. I pity any
woman who is liable to make the discovery of such feelings when it
is too late--when she can but sit down in passive submission to her
destiny."

"Margaret is too impetuous for that."

"Nay, you can not believe that she would fail to resist such feelings,
when marriage made them a sin."

"I have never thought. I do not choose to contemplate the possibility
of a thing like that."

"It is much wiser not."

The words grated unpleasantly on Laurence's ear; he could not tell why,
but a vague suspicion in regard to Margaret woke in his mind--once
roused, no power could thrust it aside.

"We go to Highcliff to-day, I believe," Sybil said, after a pause, too
wise ever to push a conversation one step too far.

"Yes; that was decided last night," he answered, moodily. "I wish these
people were gone; I am tired of bustle and confusion. My own stay in
the country should terminate at once, only the old gentleman won't hear
of it."

Miss Chase expressed her entire participation in his weariness, and
noticing that the hands of the clock had crept round to the hour at
which people might be expected to make their appearance, she went out
of the room and did not appear again until several of the party were
gathered in the breakfast-room.

Soon after noon they started upon the expedition to Highcliff, a lofty
mountain that towered over a river which flowed through the valley in
which Mr. Waring's property lay, and was accessible to the summit by
persons on horseback.

It was a large, merry party; Margaret was recklessly gay, conscious
that her lover was watching her, and growing more excited and
determined to appear careless and unconcerned on that account.

When they reached the top of the mountain, the horses were left in
care of the servants, and the people wandered about at their pleasure,
dividing into little groups and enjoying themselves as best suited
their peculiar idiosyncracies.

Late in the afternoon, Sybil Chase, who had been talking first with one
group then with another, looked about and missed Margaret and Hinchley;
it seemed proper to her, in her wisdom, that their movements should be
watched, and she flitted hither and yon among the trees in search of
them.

Margaret had gone with Hinchley and a young girl, who had her own
object in seeking that part of the woods, in search of a spring that
broke out from the hollow of a charming little dell near by, filling
the woods with its crystalline music. The hollow was celebrated not
only for its spring of fresh water, but for the bird-songs that rung
through it from morning to night, making the place, in more senses than
one, a paradise.

The friends walked on, enjoying the shadows and sunshine that played
through the branches. Margaret had, really, no thought of avoiding any
of her party; but after Laurence left her side, she had little care
about time or place.

As they came near the dell, Margaret's young friend changed her mind,
as girls of sixteen sometimes will, very unaccountably. She had seen
a certain young gentleman flitting through the distant shadows, and
as his supposed presence there had brought her toward the spring,
a glimpse of his movements in another direction checked her desire
for a drink of cold water on the instant. But she was seized with an
overpowering hunger for young wintergreen, and that always grew best on
slopes which the sunshine visited occasionally--never in hollows.

She mentioned this craving wish with some hesitation, but Margaret only
smiled and said:

"Nonsense, nonsense; time enough for that when we have seen the spring."

They moved a few paces and came in sight of the dell, a beautiful
hollow shaded with hemlocks, dogwood and wild honeysuckles.

Fragments of rock lay in the bed of the hollow, through which a crystal
brooklet, born at the spring, crept and murmured caressingly, sending
up its tiny spray, and clothing its friends, the rocks, with the
brightest moss. Water-cresses shone up through the waves, and speckled
trout slept under the fern-leaves.

It was a delightful place, cool and heavenly; but the young lady of
sixteen saw that figure moving away through the distance, and grew
frantic from fear of snakes. Copperheads and red-adders, she protested,
were always found in just such places--she saw one then, creeping
around the foot of that hemlock. So with pretty expostulations and
divers shrieks loud enough to arrest the young man in his covert, she
darted off toward the open glades, where that shadowy figure was soon
busy on his knees gathering young wintergreens for her benefit.

"Shall we go on?" Margaret asked, when the young lady had retreated.

"If you are not tired," Hinchley answered. "I should like to go down
very much. The dell is the prettiest spot I ever saw, and the water
delicious."

"Oh yes, it is a lovely spot," Margaret said. "Some day I intend to
make a sketch of it. Let us select the best view."

They went down the descent and stood by the spring, which rushed out
from among the rocks with a pleasant, bell-like murmur, and cast its
tiny shower of spray-bubbles over the violets that fringed it.

"How still it is," Margaret observed.

"Yes; it is refreshing to escape from all that chatter. How constantly
people do talk."

"Yet if one is silent, it is to be considered stupid."

"But stupidity would be a relief sometimes."

Margaret did not answer; she was busy with her own thoughts. When
Hinchley spoke again it was of other things. He had been shocked at
finding so much changed at the homestead, for the old gentleman now saw
no visitors and seldom left his room, and Ralph felt that he ought to
make Margaret understand how little hope there was that she could much
longer have her uncle's house as a place of protection.

Margaret wept bitterly; but when he attempted to speak of Laurence, or
allude to her marriage, she only turned passionately away, with bitter,
haughty words that made Ralph fear both for her and his friend.

While they stood talking by the spring, Sybil Chase moved softly
through the underbrush and looked down at them. After a moment's silent
watch, she went back toward the place where she had left Laurence
conversing with a group of persons who had become tired of wandering
among the trees.

She remained a little way off from the party, and very soon he took
occasion to join her. They began to converse, and gradually walked down
the hill. Sybil did not appear to be leading him to any particular
spot, but was walking as absently along as himself. She paused on
a rise of ground which commanded a view of the dell. Sybil watched
Laurence, but stood with her face turned from the spring. He caught
sight of the pair standing in the dell--gave a quick start, while the
color shot up to his forehead.

"Are you ill?" Sybil asked, gently.

"Look down there," he replied, pointing to Margaret and Hinchley, who
were absorbed in conversation, Ralph holding his cousin's hand, while
she wept unrestrainedly.

"It is Margaret," said Sybil.

"And Hinchley."

"They have come to see the spring."

"I perceive, Miss Chase;" he spoke bitterly.

"Nonsense, Mr. Laurence--you are not jealous? He is her cousin."

"No--I am displeased."

"It means nothing at all."

"But it does not look well. I can see you think so.

"It may be a little imprudent, but you know Margaret is very impulsive.
Shall we go down?"

"We will not disturb them."

"Don't look so stern, Mr. Laurence; you really frighten me."

"There is no cause for alarm. The moment Margaret convinces me that she
is a flirt, I shall feel only contempt for her."

"I am sure she is not in fault," returned Sybil. "I never saw her
encourage the slightest attention from any gentleman before."

"True--I had not thought of that."

He frowned, black and angry, bit his lip and reflected.

"You meant something then which I did not comprehend," said Miss Chase.

"I was reflecting. I never saw Margaret on such friendly terms with any
man before. It makes me think the more seriously of this."

"Great heavens, Mr. Laurence, you can not suspect her! Hinchley is her
cousin. They have been dear friends from childhood."

"She is my betrothed wife. She has no right to make herself a subject
of comment."

"Come away!" she exclaimed, quickly; "come away!"

She took his hand and drew him back into the path.

"It is nothing," she repeated several times. "I am convinced that you
are angry without cause."

"I believe so," replied Laurence--"I must believe it! But Margaret had
better take care. I have borne a great deal. She shall not, by her
folly or her vanity, make me ridiculous, nor will I be made a dupe."

"Such words, Mr. Laurence!"

"I mean them! As for Hinchley, if he make trouble between Margaret and
me, I shall hold him guilty as if she were my wife."

Sybil sighed heavily.

"Of what are you thinking?" asked Laurence.

"I hardly know--I can not tell."

"I see that you are troubled," he said, violently. "Sybil, you have
called yourself my friend; answer me: do you believe that Hinchley
loves Margaret?"

Sybil hesitated; her head was averted, as if she could not bear to meet
his earnest gaze.

"I have ceased to believe that she cares greatly for me. Tell me if you
think Hinchley is more to her than a cousin and friend."

"Do not ask me; mine are only vague suspicions. I can not be the one to
destroy your last hope of happiness."

"I am answered," he said, gloomily.

"No, no; I will not--I can not answer! Look for yourself, Mr. Laurence.
I may be wrong. I have very strict and, what people might think,
singular ideas. Oh! don't mind what I have said."

"I will see for myself," he answered, recklessly. "Let me once be
convinced, and I shall leave her forever. Oh, Sybil! you are my
friend--the only one to whom I can turn for sympathy."

Sybil buried her face in her hands and burst into tears; but when he
attempted to question her, she broke from him.

"Let me go!" she exclaimed. "I blush for my own weakness. Let me go,
Edward Laurence!"

She hurried away, leaving him bewildered and troubled. For the first
time he felt dimly that Sybil loved him, and the consciousness
brought a host of inexplicable feelings to his heart. She looked so
lovely in her distress--her gentleness, in contrast with Margaret's
violence and ill-temper, was so touching, that her image lingered in
his imagination--the only ray of light in all the blackness which
surrounded him.

As Hinchley and his cousin passed up the hill, they saw Sybil Chase
conversing with a little group of friends.

"I have a horror of that woman," said Ralph.

"Yet she seems a quiet, sensible person," replied Margaret. "I have
allowed myself to become prejudiced against her; but when I am in her
society I forget it all."

Hinchley did not answer. The remembrance of that terrible night in
California came back, as was always the case, when Sybil Chase came in
sight. Her figure started up instead of the woman he had but half seen,
and he turned from the thought with self-abhorrence--it was wicked to
indulge it even for an instant.

While they stood together, Laurence approached, pale and agitated, like
a man under the excitement of wine.

"Edward!" Hinchley called out, cheerfully. "Laurence, is it not almost
time to go home?"

"I suppose you are at liberty to choose your own time," replied
Laurence, insolently.

Margaret colored scarlet; an insult to her cousin seemed given to
herself.

"What is the matter?" asked Ralph, in surprise.

"Oh, pay no attention," interposed Margaret, before Laurence could
reply. "It is only a slight specimen of Mr. Laurence's civility. He is
not satisfied with being rude to me, but must extend his bad manners to
my relatives."

"You are at liberty to put any construction you please upon my words or
manner," returned Laurence. "I shall not account to either of you."

"To me it is a matter of perfect indifference," said Margaret,
haughtily.

Ralph looked from one to the other in pain and astonishment, at a loss
what to say or do.

"Now don't quarrel like children," he exclaimed, trying to laugh.
"Come, shake hands and be friends."

"Miss Waring's conduct proves how sincerely she desires to be friends,"
answered Laurence, with a harsh laugh.

"I do not wish it," she exclaimed, greatly irritated by his manner.

"Margaret! Margaret!" pleaded Ralph.

"Oh, don't check her," sneered Laurence.

"He can not," returned Margaret. "I am weary of this rudeness--weary of
you."

"Say and do what you please; I will leave you in more agreeable
society," said Laurence, hurrying away.

Hinchley tried to expostulate with her, but words were thrown away.
During the ride home, and the whole evening, Margaret and Laurence did
not speak. Ralph kept near her, anxious to soothe her anger, while
Laurence and Sybil Chase watched every movement and look.

Thus, with her proud spirit up in arms, and her heart aching with
wounded tenderness, the poor girl rushed into the snare so insidiously
laid beneath her feet.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE JAIL.


In one of the interior towns of California there stands a jail, by
no means striking in appearance, or remarkable for its solidity or
strength, yet possessing the horrible fascination which any place
connected with tragic deeds fastens on the mind.

Within that prison many notable criminals had been confined; murders
had been committed there by hardened men, daring every thing in a
struggle for liberty; many a reckless criminal had gone from thence
to the gallows; even youths, with the freshness of boyhood on their
cheeks, had gone out from those walls to a violent death, incited to
evil doing and crime by the very lawlessness and sin about them.

In one of the cells upon the upper floor, a single occupant was seated,
crouched down upon a bench, and his eyes moodily fixed upon the small
grated window which looked out upon a sort of paved court around which
the jail was built.

The prisoner might have been a man of thirty-five, but in that dim
light, with his unshaven beard, and face pale from inactivity and
confinement, it was difficult to judge accurately of his age.

The countenance was harsh and unpleasant, but the expression was
rather that of reckless passion than revealing any stern, sinister
determination. His frame was large and muscular, the veins were knotted
and swollen upon his pale hands, and it was indeed pitiable to see so
much physical strength wasting in the gloom of a prison.

Sometimes his lips moved; the restless flashing of his eyes betrayed
the brooding thought within his mind. At last he rose suddenly, took
the bench upon which he had been sitting, and lifted it, as if anxious
to test his strength. He held it extended upon the fingers of his right
hand in a manner which required no inconsiderable force. Then he set it
down upon the floor, abruptly as he had raised it, and laughed a low,
smothered laugh.

"Not quite a baby yet," he muttered--"not quite! I can do it, and I
will. I have got out of worse scrapes than this--fudge, what's this
place compared to Australia?"

A low imprecation finished the sentence, then he resumed his seat, and
began his meditations anew. But quiet seemed impossible to him in the
mood into which he had worked himself.

He rose again, carried the bench to the window, and, standing upon it,
managed to leap high enough to grasp the gratings. There he suspended
himself, with his whole weight resting upon his hands, and looked out.
When he had finished his survey, he loosed his hold and dropped lightly
upon the bench.

"It's all right," he whispered to himself. "I know the place. It can be
done, and I am the man to do it."

It was then somewhat after midday, and, as the man resumed his seat,
there was a tread without, a sound of keys grating in their lock, then
the door opened and the jailer entered, carrying a sparse meal, which
he set down near the prisoner.

The man looked up and nodded good-naturedly enough.

"I thought you didn't mean to let me have any dinner," he said.

"Oh, I don't want to starve you," returned the jailer. "Eat and make
yourself comfortable."

It was no unusual thing for the prisoner to engage this man in
conversation, and if he was in the mood he answered readily and with
sufficient kindness.

"What day of the month is this?" asked the man, preparing to attack the
repast set before him.

"The twelfth."

"How a fellow loses his count in this miserable hole," returned the
prisoner.

"Don't slander your quarters, there's worse in the world; ten to one
you've been in 'em."

"Maybe so and maybe not. I say, California sheep get pretty tough, now
don't they?" he continued, tearing vigorously at the baked mutton which
had been placed before him.

"Makes a man strong to eat tough mutton," replied the jailer.

"Think so?" and the prisoner smiled a little, unseen by his companion.

"I'm sure of it," said the jailer.

"Perhaps you've had your turn at it," observed the man.

"Can't say I ever did, and don't want to."

"You needn't; still it's not so bad that one can't bear it."

The jailer prepared to retire.

"You're a cheerful, good-natured fellow, any how," he remarked.

"Yes, that is my way."

"And a good deal better than being so cantankerous as some chaps we
have here; they only get harder treatment."

The prisoner agreed with him completely, and with some other careless
remark, the jailer left the cell.

When the door closed, and he heard the heavy bolts clang into their
sockets, the prisoner muttered:

"If I have to throttle you to-night, you won't think so well of my
good-nature."

He laughed again, as if there had been something amusing in the
thought, and finished his meal with as much dispatch as if some
important business awaited its completion.

But when all was done, he had only to resume his silent watch, varying
it by pacing up and down the narrow cell, and performing a variety
of gymnastic feats, which seemed an unnecessary waste of muscle and
strength.

So the afternoon wore by. The sunset came in; its faint gold streamed
across the floor, and attracted the prisoner's eye. He rose, stretching
out his hands as if to grasp it.

"This looks like freedom," he muttered. "It's a warning."

The superstition appeared to gratify him, and he remained in the same
position until the brightness faded, and the gray shadows of twilight
began to fill the room.

"It's gone," he said; "so much the better; I shall follow all the
sooner."

He sat down again and waited. His restlessness and impatience had
disappeared; a strong determination settled upon his face. He looked
prepared for any emergency, and was ready to catch at any chance,
however desperate, which might aid his plans.

The lamp in the corridor had been lighted while he sat there; the light
struggled through the grating over the door, and played across the room
among the shadows cast by the bars.

There he sat, listening to every sound from without with the stealthy
quiet of a panther that sees his prey and is prepared to spring.

An hour might have passed before the jailer's heavy tread again sounded
upon the pavement; he was whistling a merry tune, that rung strangely
enough among those gloomy corridors and darkened cells.

When the prisoner heard the step pause before his door, he took from
his bed the thick woolen blankets which lay upon it and, grasping them
in his hand, crept quietly behind the door.

The key turned in the lock, the heavy door swung upon its hinges with a
sound so mournful and ominous, that had the man who entered been at all
imaginative, he might have taken it for a warning. But he passed on,
interrupting his song to call out something in a cheerful voice, but
the prisoner did not answer.

"He must be asleep," muttered the jailer. "Well, well, poor chap, he
hain't much else to do!"

He moved toward the bed, saying:

"Here, wake up, lazybones, and eat your supper before it gets cold."

The door swung slowly to its latch, but he did not heed the warning; a
step sounded behind him, but before he could turn or cry out, the heavy
blanket was thrown over his head, almost smothering him in its folds,
and an iron grasp crushed him down upon the floor.

"Lie still, or I'll murder you," whispered a stern, hard voice.

The jailer's only response was a half-choked gurgle in his throat;
whatever his courage or strength might have been, he was entirely
powerless.

The prisoner continued his preparations with the utmost quiet; bound
the unfortunate man to the iron bedstead, and so completely enveloped
him in the blanket, that there was not the slightest hope of his
extricating himself.

Stealthily the prisoner moved to the door, and looked down the corridor
dimly lighted by a lamp at the further end. No one was stirring; at
that hour the people employed in the jail were at their supper, as the
man well knew, so that he found little risk of being observed.

He locked the door behind him, put the keys in his pocket, to be flung
away when once beyond the walls, and walked rapidly but silently down
the passage.

He was perfectly familiar with every winding and outlet of the prison,
and moved hurriedly along through the shadows, down the stairs, along a
back passage, where no guard was stationed as it communicated directly
with the kitchens, and reached the outer door.

There he paused an instant, to be certain that he had made no mistake,
looking about with as much composure as though he had been already
beyond the danger of pursuit.

He had been in more terrible positions than that; had listened to the
infuriated shouts of a mob thirsting for his life; had seen the body of
a companion swung from a tree before his very eyes; and yet, amid all
the horror and terror, had preserved his courage and presence of mind
sufficiently to make his way among the very men who were hunting him
down with the fury of bloodhounds.

An hour passed. The jailer in the dark cell had managed, with his teeth
and nails, to enlarge a rent in the blanket sufficiently to extricate
his head. His feet were pinioned, but he crept along the pavement to
the door, and beat heavily against the bars to summon assistance from
without; but nothing answered, save the echo of his frantic cries and
the sharp blows upon the barred oak.

Away out upon a little eminence, that still from the distance commanded
a view of the prison, stood the escaped criminal, casting a last glance
back upon the weather-stained walls. He lifted his hand with a gesture
of mockery and exultation, plunged down the hill, and was lost amid the
dense woods that spread out for miles beyond.




CHAPTER XV.

THE DUEL.


Mr. Waring's old housekeeper was ill--a most unusual misfortune to
befall her, and one which she could not at first either realize or
believe. She struggled against this sudden malady with all the energy
and obstinacy of her nature; but she was at length forced to take to
her bed and let the fever have its course, while she grumbled and
snarled at every mortal who approached, and gave the poor girl who was
obliged to take care of her a precious life indeed.

But while the old lady lay snapping and rabid with fever, affairs in
the house did not go on smoothly at all, and nervous Mr. Waring nearly
fretted himself into a fever which almost equaled that which had taken
such sharp hold of his rebellious housekeeper.

Margaret was busy with her own troubles; and, besides, she was affected
with that horror of domestic matters, which, I am sorry to say, is
so common among my youthful country-women, and entirely neglected to
interest herself in the domestic annoyances that beset them.

In the mean time the servants ran riot below stairs, and, as several of
them were new-comers, belonging to the Celtic race into the bargain,
they took such advantage of the housekeeper's absence that it soon
became doubtful whether they would condescend to prepare meals for any
portion of the family except that which reigned in the kitchen.

Mr. Waring sent for Miss Chase to his room for consultation. The lady
was all sweetness and affability, declared her willingness to do every
thing in her power to restore the household to order, but more than
hinted that Margaret would not permit her to interfere.

Of course the old gentleman was in a sad way, but poor Meg's health had
become so delicate that he did not venture to speak with her upon the
subject; and the only thing he could do was to listen favorably to any
proposal which Miss Chase made.

"I will go down to town this very morning," she said, "and I am very
certain that I shall return with a woman perfectly competent to take
charge of your household."

When she saw how Mr. Waring brightened at that information, she added
another touch of comfort:

"I have the address somewhere of a woman who once lived for a time with
Mrs. Pierson. If I can find her, she will suit you admirably."

The matter was satisfactorily arranged. Mr. Waring began to look upon
Sybil as a sort of guardian-angel; and she bade him good-morning with
her sweetest smile to make preparations for her expedition.

Sybil returned from the city that night accompanied by a respectable
elderly female, who set about her duties in such a quiet, understanding
way that everybody was delighted and something like peace restored.

Of course the old housekeeper grumbled more than ever, and was prepared
to consider the stranger the most abominable of her sex; but no one
paid much attention, and, as every spasm of rage only increased her
fever, and she was quite incapable of controlling her temper, there
seemed every probability that placid Mrs. Brown would hold the reins
of government in her chubby fingers for some time to come.

And now events began to thicken about that once cheerful house on the
river, and those miserable young beings were urged forward to the last
act of anger and injustice which should consummate their misery. The
net which Sybil had woven had been slowly and securely drawn about
them, and now the opportunity was offered which completed the work she
had so skillfully arranged.

The estrangement between Laurence and Margaret was daily gaining
strength. Laurence began really to believe that he hated her, and the
fascination which Sybil had thrown about him became enthralling. He
came to the house now merely to hold long, confidential conversations
with her, and from every one he retired more completely bewildered and
enslaved.

He had quarreled with Hinchley, although the young man remained at the
house as his uncle's invited guest. He was deeply pained by the state
of affairs, and still hoped to reunite his cousin and friend.

It might have been a fortnight after the installation of Mrs. Brown
when Sybil and Laurence were walking in the shrubbery at some distance
from the house.

They saw Hinchley pass down a neighboring path in full view of the
spot where they stood, although he was unconscious of their presence.
Laurence muttered bitter execrations against the intruder; and while
Sybil was soothing him, they saw the new housekeeper go cautiously down
the path and join Hinchley. She gave him a note and stole away again.

"I understand now," whispered Laurence. "She is made a medium of
communication between that man and Margaret. She shall tell me the
truth, or I will annihilate her."

He drew Sybil forward and stood directly in the path as Mrs. Brown
approached. When she saw them, the woman started back with every
evidence of fear and confusion; but Laurence grasped her roughly by the
arm.

"You gave that man a note from Miss Margaret," he said.

The woman began to cry at once.

"Oh, sir, don't make me lose my place! I couldn't refuse the young
lady! Do speak a word for me, Miss Chase. I mean to be faithful. I
didn't mean any harm."

"And you have carried notes between them before?" demanded Laurence.

"I didn't know it was wrong--indeed I didn't. Tell him I am an honest
woman, Miss Chase."

"Go into the house, Brown," said the lady, coldly. "I am disappointed
in you."

Laurence released her arm, and she darted away wringing her hands in
sad distress. Laurence made a step toward the place where Hinchley
stood reading the letter with a look of doubt and astonishment.

"Stop," whispered Sybil. "What are you going to do?"

"Take that letter--know the truth."

She attempted to plead with him, but he pushed her aside and strode
toward Hinchley. The young man looked up, startled at his unexpected
approach, and made a movement to conceal the note in his hand.

"Give me that letter!" exclaimed Laurence, in a hoarse voice.

"A very singular demand, sir," returned Hinchley, coldly.

"I will have it--the proof of your treachery and hers--you miserable
coward!"

He sprung forward, seized Hinchley in his infuriated grasp, and a short
but severe struggle took place. At last, Laurence flung his opponent
back and seized the note.

"Scoundrel!" exclaimed Hinchley. "Give back that paper."

"Never! I will read it!"

Sybil saw that she must interfere, or Laurence would not be permitted
to open the sheet; so she hurried up with hysteric sobs, and threw her
arms about Hinchley.

"No violence!" she sobbed. "Oh, don't quarrel, Mr. Hinchley, don't."

While he vainly tried to extricate himself from her hold, Laurence tore
open the letter and read it. He would hardly have been human had he not
given way to the storm of fury which swept over him.

The writing was Margaret's, the letter signed with her name, and it
revealed the story of her wretchedness, her desire to free herself from
her engagement, and her belief that she was loved by Hinchley. The note
went on to say that he need have no scruples about seeking her hand,
as she was determined never to marry Laurence.

The young man dropped the letter with a groan.

Sybil released Hinchley, whose anger seemed to have changed to pity at
the sight of his former friend's distress.

"She never wrote it, Laurence," he exclaimed. "I would pledge my life
on it."

"Who then?" he answered. "Is there another woman on earth brazen enough
to have written it?"

"How can I tell? But I would stake my life that it is a forgery."

He glanced at Sybil; something in her attitude brought back his old
suspicions, but they were so vague, her innocence in the present matter
so apparent, that it would have seemed madness to have spoken of them.
Again Laurence turned upon him most furiously, and hurled such terrible
epithets and charges against him, that no man of courage could have
endured them.

Sybil Chase left the two men pale with wrath, and rushed away, not
frightened at what she had done, but believing it wiser for her to
escape from the scene; for language had been employed on both sides
that could only end in apologies or deadly violence. Hinchley was
wrought to a pitch of frenzy nearly equal to that which convulsed
Laurence.

He grasped eagerly at a defiance which fell from his opponent.

"When you will," he answered. "You will find me always ready to
vindicate my honor."

"So be it," returned Laurence. "Before sunset to-night, let your life
or mine pay the forfeit; we can not breathe the same air another day."

Before they parted it was settled--angrily settled--that two school
friends, men who had been intimate and loving as brothers, should stand
face to face, each opposed to his murderer. This is the true word.
Call duelling the only resource of wounded honor if you will; it is
murder, after all--murder the most atrocious, from its very coolness
and premeditation.

Hinchley broke away abruptly, after having regained possession of the
fatal letter, and Laurence rushed toward the house to find Margaret,
and overwhelm her with his knowledge of her weakness and treachery.

It had been a dark, wretched day to the girl, passed between the sick
chamber of her uncle and that of the old housekeeper. Mr. Waring had
been seized with one of his violent attacks, and was lying dangerously
ill. Exhausted with watching, Margaret found an opportunity to rest,
and went down stairs to the library, meeting Sybil Chase in the hall.

"Will you go and sit with my uncle for a while, Miss Chase?" she asked,
wearily.

"Certainly," replied Sybil, somewhat flurried after her escape from the
garden, but concealing her emotion with her usual success. "You look
quite worn out; it would do you good to sleep."

Margaret passed on without vouchsafing a reply; her dislike of the
woman had grown into absolute aversion during the past days, and it was
with difficulty that she could force herself to receive her advances
with common civility.

Margaret entered the library, closed the door and threw herself upon a
couch, hoping for a time to forget her distress and bitter feelings in
slumber. She fell asleep at once, and was aroused from an incoherent
dream by the violent opening of the door, and a hoarse voice called out:

"Margaret--Margaret Waring?"

She started up, confused by the abrupt awakening, and with a vague
impression that her uncle had been taken suddenly worse; but she saw
Laurence standing before her, livid with passion. Margaret rose at
once, and coldly said:

"Mr. Laurence, you will please come into a room which I occupy,
somewhat less boisterously."

"I grieve exceedingly to have disturbed your delicate nerves," he
replied, with a hoarse laugh; "but I have that to say which will
possibly shock them still more."

She gave him a haughty glance, which roused his fury to still greater
violence.

"Nothing you could do would shock me," she said. "I am prepared for any
thing."

"Then you are prepared to hear that I have discovered your falsehood
and treachery! Miserable, cowardly girl, why did you not come frankly
and tell me the truth?"

Her pride rose to meet the passion which flamed in his eyes.

"Mr. Laurence," she exclaimed, "I have borne a great deal from you; but
you shall not insult me in this house!"

"Why did you not say to me frankly--I detest this marriage?" he
continued. "Do you think I would not have freed you at once?"

"I do not know what you mean," she answered, trembling with angry
astonishment at his words. "But let me tell you now, I do dread
it--loathe the very thought of it."

"So this you wrote to him," he exclaimed. "I have seen the letter! Why,
shame on you, Margaret Waring! I would not have believed you thus lost
to all womanly pride. What! tell man unsought that you loved him? and
you honorably bound to another."

She stared at him in angry surprise--her lips apart, her wild eyes full
of scornful incredulity.

"You have been dreaming, or you are crazy," she said.

"Neither the one nor the other; but I know every thing."

"I do not understand you," she replied, relapsing into the haughty
coldness which always enraged him more than any bitter words that she
could speak.

"Oh, do not add another falsehood to the list!" he exclaimed. "Haven't
you perjured your soul enough, already? I tell you that I read the
letter you wrote to Ralph Hinchley. I have watched you for weeks; I
know the whole extent of your shameful duplicity."

"Stop!" cried Margaret. "I will endure no more! Leave this house, Mr.
Laurence, at once, and forever! While we both live, I will never see
your face again; my uncle decides this night, between you and me;
either he confirms what I now say, or I will leave his house."

"So be it; do not think I regret it! Why, I came here only to expose
and cast you off. Your uncle shall see that letter. I will have it, or
tear it from Hinchley's heart. When Waring has read that, we shall see
what he thinks of his dainty niece."

"Of all this passion I do not comprehend one word; but it wearies me.
Go, sir."

"Do you dare deny having written to Ralph Hinchley that you loved
him--that you were ready to abandon your engagement and marry him?"

"Oh!" groaned Margaret, almost fainting from a sharp recoil of outraged
feeling, "is there no man living who will avenge me on this libeler?"

"He may, perhaps, avenge you; why not?" retorted Laurence; "but answer.
You shall answer and confess this duplicity, or blacken your soul with
another lie. Did you write to Hinchley?"

"I did," said Margaret; "a note of three lines, asking him to pay a
bill for me at Desmond's."

"Margaret! Margaret! this effrontery only makes it more unbearable," he
cried. "I will expose you to the whole world."

"Do what you please--say what you choose, but leave this house, and
never let me see you again."

"I go willingly. Farewell forever, Margaret! I do not curse; time will
do that, and I can wait."

He dashed out of the room, pale and fierce with contending passions,
and hurried from her presence.

Margaret stood upright until the door closed, then her hands fell to
her side, a low moan broke from her lips, and she dropped senseless
upon the couch.

It was near sunset when she came to herself again; Sybil Chase was
bending over her, bathing her forehead and using words of tender
solicitude, while a little way off stood the new housekeeper,
apparently quite overcome with distress.

Margaret pushed Miss Chase away, and would have left the room without
a word, but Sybil caught her arm, while a strange light shot into her
eyes.

"I must detain you a moment," she said. "Your uncle has been seized
with a frightful attack; the physician is with him now."

"What caused it?" demanded Margaret.

"Mr. Laurence was with him," faltered Sybil.

Margaret turned upon her with cold scrutiny.

"Miss Chase," she said, "I believe on my soul that you are at the
bottom of all this trouble. I desire you to quit the house at once."

Sybil pleaded, wept, and demanded an explanation, but Margaret broke
from her, and hurried out of the room.

"What is to come now?" whispered the woman, going close to Sybil, who
stood looking after Margaret, and smiling as only women like her can
smile.

"She has done exactly what I desired," she answered. "I shall leave
this house in an hour; you will go with me."

"But the duel?"

"Oh! that drives me frantic; but I believe Hinchley will be the
sufferer--I should go mad else! Pack my things, and meet me at the
station in an hour."

She hurried away, without giving the woman time to speak, and left the
house at once.

Sybil took her way rapidly through the grounds, crossed the high road,
and ran through the fields until she reached a lofty ascent, from
whence she could command a view of the broad sandy plain beneath.

She was only just in time; there she stood, and gazed below with the
same expression her face had worn upon the night when she watched her
husband's frightful death in the wilds of California.

Only a few paces from each other stood Laurence and Ralph Hinchley;
each held a pistol in his hand, and even as Sybil looked, one of the
seconds gave the word.

There was a simultaneous report, a blinding flash, and when the smoke
cleared away, Sybil saw Hinchley stretched upon the ground, the two
assistants bending over him, and Laurence standing in his old position.

She heard one of the men say:

"Save yourself, Laurence;" then Hinchley called out:

"Not yet--not yet; it is only my arm; there is no danger. Edward,
believe me, Margaret never wrote that letter. Keep her name out of this
quarrel. It will yet be explained."

Laurence only replied by a gesture of dissent. The seconds raised the
wounded man, bore him to a carriage which was stationed a little way
off, placed him upon the seat, and the party drove away.

Laurence stood like a statue, gazing moodily upon the pistol he grasped
in his hand.

Sybil hurried down the bank, calling out:

"Laurence! Laurence!"

He turned at her approach, flung the pistol away, and caught her in his
arms.

"I am revenged," he said. "I have nothing left in the world but you,
Sybil Chase. Oh, say that you love me!"

The long expected moment had arrived, and, regardless of the sins by
which that painful bliss had been purchased, Sybil Chase folded her
white arms around his neck and gave passionate expression to the wild
love that had burned in her heart for years.

Now the great object of her misguided life was attained. She was
free from the man who had been a terrible barrier between them. The
engagement was broken by her own arts. With all this, why was there so
much pain left in her heart? Why did she tremble so violently in the
first clasp of his arms?




CHAPTER XVI.

THE BATTERY.


Several days passed, and more miserable ones never dawned upon the
household at Brooklawn.

Gerald Waring was dead. The excitement into which he had been thrown by
Laurence's insane story, the passionate denunciations of Margaret, and
the unaccountable departure of Sybil Chase had brought on a recurrence
of his disease more violent than any sufferings that had preceded, and
before noon the next day he was a corpse.

Margaret sat alone in her room, desolate and almost maddened by the
events of the past days. Her uncle was dead, and now she stood in the
world utterly alone. He was the last of her family, the only human
being upon whom she had the slightest claim of kindred save the slight
clue of blood that bound her to Ralph Hinchley.

Waring's property, never very extensive, had been heavily mortgaged
to gratify his expensive tastes and invalid caprices. Brooklawn must
be sold, and after that painful event Margaret must go forth into the
world homeless and desolate. Selfish and thoughtless as Waring was, he
would have made some provision for his niece, but that he was confident
of her marriage with Laurence, by which she would be placed in a
position far beyond all need of assistance. Thus assured, the weak man
dismissed the matter entirely from his mind, and thought only of his
present comforts.

Margaret had seen Hinchley and learned every thing from him. The truth
only aroused her pride more forcibly. There was no relenting in her
purpose; though broken, miserable, and beset with poverty, she would
have rejected Laurence had he knelt before her pleading for pardon. Her
proud heart had been more revolted at the fact that he could doubt her
truth than by all the cruelty of his conduct.

Gerald Waring was buried. He had lived in small things, and his life
was of little value to any human being, except Margaret. She, poor
girl, mourned him greatly; and as the days passed into weeks, and it
became necessary for her to think of another home, her loneliness and
desolation increased into absolute dejection.

When Hinchley recovered from his wound sufficiently to go out, he
visited Margaret several times; but was quite unable to throw any light
upon the mystery which surrounded them, save the bare facts of the
quarrel and separation.

Sybil Chase had settled herself in comfortable lodgings in New York,
and there Laurence visited her daily. With each day his wounded pride
grew more sensitive, and his condemnation of Margaret increased. Sybil
knew how to strengthen the infatuation which bound him within the spell
of her influence, and thus her control became supreme.

Hinchley could not meet Laurence--he knew the utter folly of any
attempt at reconciliation. His own feelings toward the unhappy man were
those of profound pity. He was certain that Edward loved Margaret--that
the only hope of happiness for either in this world lay in a cordial
understanding of the truth. Thus he determined to spare no pains in
clearing up the utter darkness which enveloped their lives, and in
restoring them to the brightness of that early dream which had made
life so beautiful to both while it lasted.

Still, though the weeks passed and the beautiful spring deepened
into summer, nothing occurred which could give Hinchley the least
clue. In his own mind he fairly believed Sybil Chase the author of
all that terrible unhappiness, and with these thoughts there came
back a recollection of that night in California, when his life was so
nearly sacrificed. He reproached himself for connecting her with those
images, but could not drive the fearful thought away. Always, when he
recalled that awful struggle, the chamber in the old house, and the
quick retribution dealt to his assailant, there rose before him the dim
figure of that woman in the distance, and always behind the shrouding
shadows he saw the features of Sybil Chase.

Watching and waiting, he neglected all business and every personal
interest. He walked the streets, meditating upon those inexplicable
occurrences, haunted every spot that Sybil Chase frequented, but all
without result; when the day was over he could only return to Margaret,
and find her pale, ill, and heart-broken as he had left her.

Some errand connected with that all-engrossing affair carried him, one
day, into a street which led to the Battery; he had obtained a clue to
the residence of Mrs. Brown, and was following it up with a hope that
she might be bribed or frightened into some revelation which would tend
to make his course more clear.

A California steamer had just arrived at its wharf, and the eager crowd
came surging up the street along which Hinchley was slowly sauntering
in a painful revery. He looked with idle curiosity from face to face of
the motley throng, glad of any event which would for a moment take his
thoughts from the mournful subject which had so long engrossed him.

Suddenly he beheld upon the other side of the way a face which brought
him to an abrupt pause, while an exclamation, almost of terror, broke
from his lips. After the first glance of uncertainty, the firm, severe
look natural to his features passed over them.

The man who had disturbed him so walked by, unconscious of his
scrutiny. The face was pale from sickness or confinement, the long
beard had been shaven, the dress was altered, but through all the
change Hinchley recognized him. That image was too closely connected
with the most fearful era in his life ever to be forgotten.

After the first instant of horror and surprise, his active mind
centered upon itself; the opportunity at least of identifying Sybil
Chase with the woman he had seen was offered. What might follow he
dared not think of--the hope was too great and joyous in the midst of
so much suffering.

He turned and followed the man swiftly; came up to him in a narrow
and almost deserted street and laid his hand upon his shoulder. The
stranger started like an escaped prisoner who felt the grasp of his
pursuers upon him; but when he saw Ralph Hinchley's face, he uttered a
cry and endeavored to break away. But the young man held him fast, and
a few rapid words reassured the fugitive so much that he walked quietly
by his side and listened to him doubtfully, glancing around like a wild
animal in fear of pursuit, and ready at the slightest sound to take
flight.

"It is useless to deny what I say," was the conclusion of Hinchley's
hasty address. "I mean you no harm. Only answer my questions, and you
may go."

"Speak out then," returned the man, sullenly; "though I don't know why
the deuce I should let a man I never saw before come up and question me
in this way."

"You remember me, and did from the first," replied Hinchley, regarding
him with keen decision. "Your eyes waver--you are pale, too. This is
cowardly. Come, man, you need not be afraid; for any thing I shall do
you are safe enough. What I want is the truth, and not even that about
yourself."

"Well," replied the man, laughing in a reckless way, "the truth is not
difficult to tell about other people, though I am out of practice."

After a little more persuasion, he followed Hinchley on to the Battery,
and, sitting down under a tree, they conversed eagerly. Very soon
all doubt and fear left the man's face, a stern passion and fierce
exultation lit every feature, while from Ralph Hinchley's faded the
shadow and gloom that had clouded his countenance for weeks.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE VALLEY RANCHE.


Sybil Chase was sitting in the apartments which she had taken on
leaving Mr. Waring's residence.

Her dress, always simple and elegant, was even more studied and
elaborately delicate than usual; the face wore its lightest, fairest
look, and one seeing her as she sat gazing down the street, evidently
in momentary expectation of some person not yet in sight, would have
thought that no anxiety or stern thought had ever found a resting-place
in her bosom.

That for which she had toiled and plotted, treading ruthlessly over the
hearts and happiness of all who stood in her way, had been gained--in
one week she would be the wife of Edward Laurence.

Sybil was expecting him then; he spent the greater portion of each
day in her society, and the influence which she had gained seemed
constantly to increase.

While she waited there was a low knock at the door. Sybil started up
with a beautiful smile of welcome, which changed to a look of surprise
when the door opened and only a servant appeared, saying:

"There's a gentleman, ma'am, who wants to see you."

"I am engaged. I told you to admit no one but Mr. Laurence."

"I know it, but he would have me come up; he says he won't keep you a
moment."

"Be quick, then," she answered, impatiently.

The man went out and closed the door; but while Sybil was considering
who her visitor might be, it was flung open, and Ralph Hinchley stood
before her.

She stepped forward with an angry gesture.

"Why have you come here?" she asked. "I do not desire your visits, Mr.
Hinchley."

"Nor is it at all probable that I shall ever pay you another, madam;
but this one you will have the patience to endure."

"Mr. Laurence will soon be here," she said, haughtily; "possibly you
would prefer not to meet him."

"I desire to see him--it is part of my business here; but first, I wish
to introduce an old acquaintance of yours."

He went to the door, flung it open, and Sybil beheld a form which she
had believed long since cold in the grave, the old cruel light in the
eyes, the mocking smile upon the lips--her husband.

She started back with a cry of dreary pain.

"Don't be alarmed, Sybil," he said, quietly advancing toward her. "Of
course you are glad to see your 'own, own Philip.' That used to be the
term, I think."

"Keep off--keep off!" she shrieked, insane with fear and the suddenness
of the shock. "Philip Yates is dead. I saw him hanged. You saw him,
also, on the blasted pine, Ralph Hinchley."

"Excuse me," returned Yates; "I ought to know, and I assure you that
I am as much alive as either of you. Tom Dickinson, poor fellow, they
hung him in my place. He managed to steal my clothes from the wardrobe,
hoping the men would take him for me, and help him off. So you really
thought it was me they swung up; poor Sybil, what a disappointment!
Well, it was natural. Tom and I did look alike, especially when he was
on good behavior; but there was a certain manner he never could catch.
Still, the people mistook him for me more than once. He was so proud of
it, poor Tom. But I wouldn't have thought it of you, Syb--not know your
own husband! My darling, that is not complimentary."

She answered by a groan so despairing that it might have softened any
heart less steeled against her than those of the two men who looked
quietly on.

"No, no, Sybil," he continued; "while Tom was doubling like a fox, and
you screaming for some one to pounce on me, I slipped away through the
cellar, and into the bush. Why, bless your soul, I was perched just
above you on the precipice all the time, and, if you hadn't made off
with the horse, should have got clear, instead of being caught among
the rocks like a rat in a trap."

Sybil sunk slowly into a chair while he was giving these revolting
details, and, covering her face with both hands, interrupted him
only with her faint moans. While she sat thus abject and wounded,
Edward Laurence entered the room. He stopped short on the threshold,
astonished at the presence of those two men. He looked from one to
the other in amazement. Then turning on Hinchley, demanded in stern
wrath how he had dared to enter that dwelling. Sybil heard his voice,
and made a wild effort to shake off the terror which was crushing her
to the earth; but, as she attempted to unvail her face, the smiling
look with which Yates stood regarding her made every nerve in her body
shrink and shiver.

Laurence glanced at her, and once more turned on Hinchley.

"Why are you here, sir, and who is that man?"

"Hush, hush!" returned Ralph, mournfully. "You will have enough to
repent, Edward; be silent now."

Before Laurence could speak, Yates stepped toward Sybil, seized her by
the arm, and forced her to stand up.

"Come," he said, "you and I are going away from here."

"I will not move," she moaned, desperately. "Let me go, I say."

Laurence started forward, trembling with indignation, but the man
pushed him rudely aside.

"Don't interfere between husband and wife," he said, coldly. "I warn
you it won't be safe. You know that, Syb, of old."

"What do you mean?" said Laurence. "Great heavens, Sybil, who is this
man?"

She did not answer; in that moment all her duplicity and art failed;
she could only moan and turn away her frightened face.

"I am Philip Yates, her husband," answered he. "I have brought my
marriage certificate on purpose to prove it."

He took a paper from his pocket and gave it to Laurence, who read it
with a confused idea of its import. At last he lifted a hand to his
forehead.

"I must be insane," he faltered.

"No," returned Hinchley, "you are just coming back to your senses. That
woman, Laurence, is the female I saw in California upon the night when
I so narrowly escaped from the Valley Ranche with my life."

"Never you mind that story," interrupted Yates; "that's all gone by.
Well, Mr. Laurence, you don't seem to believe us yet; Sybil shall
answer for herself."

"I will not speak," she cried. "You may kill me, but I will not open my
lips."

"Kill you, my pet? why, I expect years of happiness with you still.
We are going back to California, my dear. It will take a long time to
repay your loving kindness that night."

"Sybil! Sybil!" groaned Laurence.

"You shall speak," continued Yates. "Tell him your real name; do it, I
say!"

He transfixed her with his terrible glance; the old fear and dread came
back. She was like a person magnetized against her will.

Without glancing toward Laurence, without being able to move her eyes
from that fiery glance, she answered in a low, strange voice.

"I am Sybil Yates. I was his wife--I am his wife."

"Bravo!" exclaimed the gambler, exultingly. "Now, Mr. Laurence, I hope
you are satisfied."

The young man did not answer; he could only stand, horror-stricken,
upon the brink of the abyss down which he had so nearly plunged.

Hinchley went to the door, and led in the woman who had served for a
time as housekeeper at Brooklawn.

"This person," he said, "has a story to tell; luckily, circumstances
have placed her quite in my power."

Sybil sprung again to her feet.

"Don't speak!" she cried; "don't speak!"

"I must, my dear," replied the woman, sobbing. "They'll never let me
alone if I don't."

"Who wrote the letter Mr. Laurence saw you give me?" demanded Hinchley.

The woman pointed to Sybil.

"It is false!" she exclaimed. "Margaret Waring wrote it."

"Nonsense, Sybil," returned Yates. "What's the good of keeping this
up? You're found out, and that's the end of it. You thought I was dead,
you wanted to marry Mr. Laurence--always did, for that matter--and laid
your plans beautifully. Upon my word, I honor you! But, you see, I am
inconveniently alive; your old mother has been frightened into telling
the truth for once, so there's nothing for it but to get away to the
Valley Ranche. The miners have forgot that little affair, and we shall
find something brighter than potatoes in the cellar. You know that."

She looked at him with her frightened eyes.

"Don't take on so," he said, with a gleam of feeling. "I always loved
you better than you believed."

Sybil shuddered.

"So we'll forget and forgive. I don't mind it if you did bring the
vigilance committee down on us that night; Tom and I were both hard on
you--it wasn't work for a lady. As for Mr. Hinchley, he ought to go
down on his knees and fill your lap with gold. If it hadn't been for
her, I tell you, old fellow, you never would have seen daylight again.
After all, that woman's a trump. I wouldn't give her up for all the
gold in California."

"Sybil," said Laurence, in a grave, low voice, "is this thing true?"

She struggled for voice, and replied, very faintly:

"It is true! God help me, it is true; but I thought he was dead. It was
night, and I so terrified that the face was not clear. Oh! if it were
only death that he brings instead of these bonds."

Laurence looked on her distress with heavy eyes.

"And Margaret."

She started as if a viper had stung her, then broke into fresh moans,
rocking to and fro on her chair.

"If we wronged her--if that letter was not genuine, tell me, that I may
offer the poor atonement in my power."

She looked up into his eyes with such anguish, that even Yates seemed
troubled.

"Speak the truth, Sybil," he said, "speak the truth, I say; did the
young lady write that letter they were talking about?"

Sybil shook her head, murmuring, under her breath, words that no one
could understand.

"Speak, Sybil."

"I wrote the letter."

"That's enough--that's like you, Sybil," said Yates, triumphantly,
forcing her cold hands from her face, and kissing them till she
shuddered all over. "Now you can go, gentlemen. I should like a little
private conversation with my wife."

Ralph Hinchley took Laurence by the arm, and led him gently from the
room.

       *       *       *       *       *

A year after this scene, when Yates had gone to California in search
of the gold left buried at the ranche, Laurence and Margaret, all the
wiser for the bitter experience of the past, stood before the altar
of the pretty church near Mr. Waring's homestead, which was to be the
resting-place of their future lives. It had been a happy place to them
once, and now, with all the painful associations buried in perfect
confidence, they turned to it with renewed affection.

Surely, that little country church never witnessed a happier wedding,
or sheltered a lovelier bride. In the flush of unchecked love, Margaret
had bloomed into something more attractive than mere beauty. The
heavy sadness had left her eyes, to be filled with gentle sunshine,
her cheek was flushed as with wild roses, and the soft radiance of
a heart at rest fell around her, pure as the silvery cloud of her
bridal vail which swept over the snow of her garments, clothing her
with whiteness from head to foot. The newly married pair went quietly
to the home which now became sacred to them both. The ceremony which
united their once estranged hearts had endowed them with wealth, and
thus it had been in their power to keep that fine old place from the
hammer. In after years, the voices of merry children rung through
the rose-thickets where Sybil Yates had woven her snares, and a
fine-looking couple might have been observed, any fair day, walking
arm-in-arm along the walks which that artful woman had once shared with
the gentleman; but he had forgotten her in the tranquil happiness of
a peaceful life, and her name was blotted out from all his thoughts,
for he could not force such company on the gentle image that filled
his heart of hearts. On the very day of this wedding, a wild scene
was being enacted at the Valley Ranche. Yates and Sybil had that day
entered their old dwelling--he elated with the success of his disguise,
which had carried him through vigilance committees and wild groups of
gold-seekers, and she a weary, subdued woman, who had outlived even the
power of wishing, and this while her hair was bright, and her cheeks
smooth with youth. She was aware that Edward Laurence was to be married
that day, but even that knowledge failed to disturb the leaden apathy
which lay upon her.

The ranche was desolate--an old Indian woman, who remained in the
kitchen, received them with more of terror than welcome.

"Don't be frightened, old woman," said Yates. "We shan't stay long to
trouble you; only get some supper for Mrs. Yates, and find me some kind
of a lamp. I don't like the look of things here."

The old woman went to the other end of the kitchen, in search of a
lamp. In passing the window, she saw a crowd of human faces looking in,
but said nothing, as hands were uplifted threateningly, and wild eyes
glared a warning upon her.

Yates went out, shading the lamp with his hands. He took a large
leathern sack from some luggage which had been cast down in the hall,
and went cautiously into the cellar. Entering the inner cave, he
removed the barrels, and, opening the iron chest, gathered up handfuls
of gold and packages of dust, which he crowded roughly down into the
bag. He was busy with a larger package than had yet presented itself,
when a hand was laid heavily on his shoulder. Yates started back,
dragging the leather sack with him into the midst of a crowd of armed
men who filled the cellar. Some of these men had been watching him all
day, and now he was in their power--utterly, hopelessly.

It was horrible, the stillness of that moment. Those fierce men spoke
in whispers. They dragged the victim forth in silence, but the tramp
of their feet fell horribly on the night. Half an hour after Yates
received that lamp from the trembling hands of the Indian woman,
exulting in his safety, a branch of the blasted pine bent low with a
second victim, and Sybil was indeed a widow.

At this day, the Valley Ranche is inhabited by the solitary woman,
who, with her Indian servant, lives alone in the old house. She still
sits by the chamber-window, and looks out upon the bridle-path leading
from the mines, but with the dull apathy of a spirit which has lost
every thing. Gray hairs have crept thickly into those rich, golden
tresses, and the remnants of her beauty are mournful to look upon. One
thing is remarkable. She never receives a letter, and never asks a
question about any one in the Atlantic States. Sybil Yates is indeed a
widow now.﻿    _And His Visual Infirmity Cost Him $15,000 and His Reputation._

"I went down to New Orleans a couple of months ago to get a young fellow
who was pretty badly wanted in my town for a two-months’ campaign of
highly successful check-kiting last summer," said a Pittsburg detective
who dropped into New York on a hunt last week. "I got him all right, and
he’s now doing his three years. I found him to be a pretty decent sort
of a young geezer, although a born crook. I don’t remember ever having
had such an entertaining traveling mate as he was on the trip up from
New Orleans. Before we started I asked him if he was going to be good or
if it would be necessary for me to put the bracelets on. He gave me an
on-the-level look and said:

"’No, I don’t think it will. But I pass it up to you. I don’t want to
throw you. All I ask is, don’t give me too much of a chance if you keep
the irons off of me. I wouldn’t be jay enough to try a window-jumping
stunt, but don’t give me a show to make either one of the car doors. If
you do I may have to give you a run for it.’

"Well, I could see that he would be all right without the cuffs, and so
I didn’t put ’em on him. He rode up with me in the sleeper all the way
from New Orleans to Pittsburg—I let him do the sleeping, though, of
course—and he had a drink when I did and played quarter ante when I did,
and none of the rest of the passengers were any the wiser. He was a
clinking good talker and he told me a lot of interesting stories of
queer propositions that he had been up against. For instance, when we
were running through the Blue Grass region of Kentucky, he turned to me
and asked me where the blue grass was. I told him that the term blue
grass was largely ornamental, and that, while the grass down there was
no doubt high-grade and the limit as fodder for thoroughbreds, I thought
it was mostly green, like the grass the world over.

"’Well, I’m blooming glad to hear you say that,’ he replied. ’It proves
that I’m not color blind on the whole gamut of colors, anyhow. If you’d
said there really was blue grass in these fields we’re running through,
I’d have given myself up as a bad job in the matter of distinguishing
colors. But as long as the grass is green like other grass—well, there’s
some hope for me.’

"’Color-blind, eh?’ I asked him.

"’Yes, I guess I am, more or less,’ he replied. ’I never knew it,
though, until last spring, and it cost me $15,000 to find it out.’

"’Expensive information,’ said I. ’How’d it happen?’

"’If you’ll undertake to forget about it by the time we get to
Pittsburg, I’ll tell you,’ he said. ’I was fooling around one of the big
towns—one of the biggest towns on this side of the Mississippi—last
spring, when I met up with a couple of wiretappers that got me
interested. They were the real kind—not fake tappers who rope fellows
into giving up coin just by showing ’em phony instruments in shady
rooms, but professionals, who really knew how to tap the wires and pull
down the money. They had been working together for some time, and when I
happened to meet them they had just pulled off a swell hog-killing up in
Toronto and had two or three thousand each in their clothes. They had
only recently struck the big town, and, as they had never operated there
before, they didn’t have to do any sleuth dodging. Neither did I,
although I was doing a bit of business in the check line occasionally,
and was about a thousand to the good when I met them. We hitched up
together, the three of us, for a drosky whirl, and then they told me
that, while they made it a rule not to let outsiders into their game,
they thought I was good enough to be admitted to a good thing that they
were about to pull off.

"’One of the largest and best patronized of the poolrooms of the town
was ’way on the outskirts of the city. The duck that runs it is worth
close on to a million, and the ticket writers have instructions never to
turn any man’s money down, no matter how big the sum or how lead-pipey
the cinch he appears to have. Lumps of $20,000 and $30,000 have
frequently been taken out of that poolroom on single tickets, and it’s
one of the few poolrooms where track odds are given.

"’My two new pals had sized up the layout, and when I met them they
already had things fixed to pull down a few comfortable wads. They had
rented a vacant frame cottage about 300 yards across a big vacant lot
from the poolroom, and, by a little night work—they were both practical
wiremen, as well as expert telegraphers—had got the wire into a room on
the second floor of the house all right. It was prairie land all around
and slimly frequented territory, and they had no trouble in rigging up
the wire paraphernalia, which they carried alongside a picket fence to
the porch of the cottage, and thence upstairs. They had the thing all
tested, and every dot and dash that reached the poolroom registered also
in the second floor of that cottage.

"’One of the fellows had formerly worked in a poolroom himself and he
had the race code down as pat as butter. They took me out to have a look
at the layout, not because they wanted a dollar out of me, for they were
on velvet, but simply because they both seemed to take a kind o’ shine
to me, and it surely looked good. I spent two or three afternoons in the
second floor front room where the layout was fixed, and the chap who was
expert with the racing code broke the report direct from the track a
dozen times and sent it in himself, after having mastered the operator’s
style at the track end of the line, and the poolroom operator was never
a bit the wiser. It was good, all right, that layout, and when they were
all ready to begin work I was in on the play.

"’We decided to make the first killing on the day the Belmont Stakes
were to be run for at Morris Park. I was against their starting it off
on such a big stake event, especially as the race looked to be such a
moral for Hamburg, but they said stake events were as good as selling
races in their business, and so we had a little rehearsal and stood by.
My end of the job was to happen in the poolroom. I was to locate there
by a dust-covered window that looked out of the poolroom across the big
vacant lot to the frame cottage where the layout was installed and wait
for the signal. The signal was to be made by means of a handkerchief
waved in the air by one of the fellows from the window. The color of the
handkerchief was to tell the name of the winner. For instance, if
Hamburg won a white handkerchief was to show at the second-story window;
if Bowling Brook captured the stakes a yellow handkerchief was to be the
signal, and so on. When I got the signal I was to put the money down on
the winner, the tapper was to hold the result from the pool operator for
five minutes to give me time to get the money down, and then I was just
to wait for the poolroom operator to announce the race. It was the
easiest thing in life, and it would have gone through with a rush, not
only on that race, but on a whole lot of other ones later on, if I
hadn’t been color blind.

"’I was on hand in the poolroom on the afternoon that we were to do
business and I put a few dollars down on the first races at Morris Park,
just for the sake of getting the ticket writers used to my face and to
avert suspicion. I had a pretty fair line on the horses in training then
and I won two or three out of the bets that I played simply on form. The
fourth race on the card was for the Belmont Stakes, and after the third
race had been confirmed and the first line of betting came in on the
stake race I lounged over to the dust-colored window and looked
uninterested. But I had the tail of my eye on the window of that frame
cottage all the time, nevertheless. I had $2,000 of my pals’ money in my
clothes and $1,000 of my own. I was a bit nervous, but I knew that I had
a pipe, and I also knew that the poolroom people had mighty little show
to get next. I had all kinds of a front on me then, and a $5,000 or even
larger bet was, as I say, not so unusual in that poolroom as to scare
’em or cause ’em to become suspicious.

"’Well, the second line of betting came in, with Hamburg the natural
favorite at 4 to 5 on in the betting, Bowling Brook 4 to 1 against and
the rest at write-your-own-ticket figures. The poolroom took in
thousands of dollars of Hamburg money, for nobody in the big crowd that
surged about the poolroom could figure any other horse in the race to
have a chance. I myself thought it was a sure thing for Hamburg, but I
wasn’t playing thinks, but cinches, and so I just stood at that window
and waited for the signal. I was, I suppose, somewhat excited internally
when I thought of the possibilities of the game, but nobody knew it. The
poolroom operator announced, ’They’re at the post at Morris Park,’ and
then I knew that ’ud be the last direct communication he’d have with
Morris Park until after the running of the Belmont Stakes. I leaned
there on that window, with one hand resting on my chin comfortably,
waiting for the flutter of the handkerchief away across the vacant lot.
The sun shone brilliantly, and the window of the frame cottage was in
plain view, and I didn’t figure it as among the possibilities that I
could make a mistake.

"’Well, when the whole crowd in the poolroom had become sort o’ mute
with expectancy and the betting at the desk was almost over, I got the
signal. It was the quickest flash in the world, a white handkerchief, as
I was perfectly positive, nervously waved three times from the
second-story window of the frame cottage. I didn’t see my pal waving the
handkerchief—only the flutter of the white handkerchief which announced
that Hamburg had won. So, without any apparent excitement, but in the
laziest kind of a way in the world, I just yawned, stretched my arms,
and remarked to a few fellows standing nearby:

"’"What’s the use of doping over the race. It’s a pipe for Hamburg. I’m
going up and put a couple of thousand on Hamburg."

"’So I walked up to the desk, passed over six $500 bills and said
"Hamburg." The ticket writer took the money without any visible emotion
and wrote me a ticket. Then I walked out among the crowd to hear the
calling off of the race, which I knew would happen within three or four
minutes.

"’"They’re off for the Belmont," the operator shouted in about three
minutes, and then said I to myself, "What an exercise gallop for
Hamburg! What a dead easy way of picking up large pieces of money!"

"’I wasn’t worried even a little bit when Bowling Brook was ’way in the
lead in the stretch.

"’Hamburg’s just laying in a soft spot right there, third, and when it
comes to a drive, how cheap, he’ll make a crab like Bowling Brook look!

"’Then the operator, after the ten seconds’ delay following the
announcement of the horses’ positions in the stretch, called out:

"’"Bowling Brook wins!"

"’Say, I’m not an excitable kind of a duck, nor dead easy to keel over,
but, on the level, my head went ’round and I had to grip hold of a chair
top when I heard that announcement. I couldn’t make it out. It seemed
out of the question. I knew that my two pals hadn’t dumped me, because
hadn’t I played $2,000 of their money? At first I thought the operator
made a mistake, and I waited with a spark of hope for the confirmation
of the race. The confirmation came in. Bowling Brook had walked in, and
Hamburg had been disgracefully beaten.

"’An hour later I met my two pals downtown. They greeted me with grins,
and held out their hands for the thousands.

"’"Thing didn’t go through, did it?" I said to them. "Where was the
mistake, anyhow? What was the white handkerchief—Hamburg’s signal—waved
for?"

"’They looked at me savagely. They were positive that I had tricked
them—that I had really played Bowling Brook with the money and was
holding it out on them.

"’"White handkerchief be blowed!" said the man that had given the
signal, pulling a light yellow handkerchief from his pocket. "What color
do you call this?"

"’Well, then I saw how the mistake had been made, and that I had made
it. In the brilliant sunshine I had mistaken the light yellow
handkerchief for a white one, and it was up to me. They didn’t give me a
chance to get in a word, though, for they believed, and believe yet, I
suppose, that I had thrown them, and they both hopped me at once. I had
to put up the fight of my life, but I downed them both finally with the
aid of a chair and a spittoon, and got away. That’s how I lost
$15,000—counting the winnings we’d have made had I played Bowling Brook
that time—by being color blind.’"




"WHOOPING" A RACE-HORSE UNDER THE WIRE.


    _A Novel Method of Treating Sulky Thoroughbreds That Often Works
                              Profitably._

"I see they hollered an old skate home and got him under the wire first
by three lengths out at the Newport merry-go-round the other day," said
an old-time trainer out at the Gravesend paddock. "Don’t catch the
meaning of hollering a horse home? Well, it’s scaring a sulker pretty
near out of his hide and hair and making him run by sheer force of
whoops let out altogether. This nag, Kriss Kringle, that was hollered
home at Newport a few days ago, is a sulker from the foot-hills. He was
sold as an N. G. last year for $25, and at the beginning of this season
he prances in and wins nine or ten straight races right off the reel at
the Western tracks, hopping over the best they’ve got out there. Then he
goes wrong, declines to crawl a yard, and is turned out. They yank him
into training again awhile back, put him up against the best a-running
on the other side of the Alleghanies, and he makes ’em look like
bull-pups one day and the next he can’t beat a fat man. He comes near
getting his people ruled off for in-and-out kidding, and then, a couple
of weeks ago, or maybe a bit less, he goes out and chews up the track
record, and gets within a second of the world’s record for the mile and
three-eighths, I believe it was.

"Then, Tuesday they have him in at a mile and a sixteenth, with a real
nippy field, as Western horses go. The right people, knowing full well
the old Springbok gelding’s propensities, shove their big coin in on him
anyway, and take a chance on him being unable to keep up with a steam
roller after his swell race a while before, and the whole crowd fall
into line and bet on Kringle until the books give them the cold-storage
countenance and say, ’Nix, no more.’ Then they get up into the stand and
around the finishing rail and they see the aged Kriss, who’s a rank
favorite, begin like a land crab, when he usually goes out from the jump
and spread-eagles his bunch. They begin the hard-luck moan when they see
the sour son of Springbok trailing along third in a field of five, and
they look into each other’s mugs and chew about being on a dead one.
Turning into the stretch, the old skate is a poor third, and stopping
every minute, a plain case of sulks, like he’s put up so many times
before. The two in front of him have got it right between them, when
Kris comes along into the last sixteenth, still third by a little bit,
and then the gang let out in one whoop and holler that could be heard
four miles. It’s ’Wowee! come on here, ye danged old buck-jumper!’ and
'Whoop-la! you Kringle!’ from nearly every one of the thousand leather
lungs in the stand and up against the rail, and the surly old rogue pins
his ears forward and hears the yelp. Then it’s all off. The old $25
cast-off jumps out like a scared rabbit at the sixteenth-pole. The
nearer he gets to the stand the louder the yelping hits him and the
bigger he strides; and he collars the two in front of him as if they
were munching carrots in their stalls, and romps under the string three
lengths to the good. That’s what hollering a horse home means. It’s a
game that can only be worked on sulkers. The yelling scares the sulker
into running, whereas it’s liable to make a good-dispositioned horse
stop as if sand-bagged.

"I’ve seen the holler-’em-in gag worked often at both the legitimate and
the outlaw tracks, and for big money. One of the biggest
hog-slaughterings that was ever made at the game was when an Iroquois
nag, a six-year-old gelding named McKeever, turned a rank outsider trick
at Alexander Island, Va., in 1895. The boys that knew what was going to
happen that time surely did buy it by the basketful for a long time
afterward. McKeever was worth about $2 in his latter career, and not a
whole lot more at any stage of the game, according to my way of sizing
’em. As a five and six-year-old, he couldn’t even make the doped outlaws
think they were in a race, but his people kept him plugging away on the
chance that some day or other he might pick up some of the spirit of his
sire, the royal Iroquois, and pay for his oats and rubbing, anyhow. When
he was brought to Alexander Island in the spring of ’95, and tried out
it was seen that he was just the same old truck-mule. One morning, after
he’d been beaten a number of times by several Philadelphia blocks, when
at 100 to 1 or so in the books, his owner had him out for a bit of a
canter around the ring, with a 140-pound stable boy on him. A lot of
stable boys and rail birds were scattered all around the infield,
assembled in groups at intervals of 100 feet or so, chewing grass and
watching the horses at their morning work. This old McKeever starts
around the course as if he’s doing a sleep-walking stunt. The boy gives
him the goad and the bat, but it’s no good. McKeever sticks to his
caterpillar gait, and his owner leans against the rail with a watch in
his mitt and mumbles unholy things about the skate. There’s a laugh
among the stable boys and the rail birds as McKeever goes gallumphing
around. Then a stable lad that’s got a bit of Indian in him leans over
the rail just as McKeever’s coming down, and lets out a whoop that can
be heard across the Potomac. McKeever gives a jump, and away he goes
like the wind. It looks so funny to the rail birds along the line that
they all take up the yelp, and McKeever jumps out faster at every shout.
He gets to going like a real, sure-enough race horse by the time he has
made the circuit once, and he keeps right on. The owner gets next to it
that it’s the shouting that’s keeping the old plug on the go, and he
waves his arms and passes the word along for the boys to keep it up.
McKeever does six furlongs in 1:14 with the assistance of the hollering,
and the owner takes him off the track, gives him a look-over and some
extra attention, and smiles to himself.

"Then he pushes McKeever into a six-and-half furlong race on the
following day. He stations about twenty or twenty-five rail birds, all
of ’em stable boys out of a job, in the infield, and hands them out
their yelling instructions. McKeever is up against one of the best
fields of sprinters at the track, and he goes to the post at 30 to 1 and
sticks at that. His owner puts a large number of his pals next to what’s
going to happen, and not a man of them plays the good thing at the
track. They have their coin telegraphed in bundles to the poolrooms all
over the country. McKeever gets out in front, and he hasn’t made more
than a dozen jumps before one of the kids inside the rail throws a whoop
that makes the people in the stand put their hands to their ears.
McKeever gives a swerve and a side step, and away he goes like the
Empire State express. A hundred feet further, when he’s four lengths in
the lead, and the others, including the even money shot, nowhere, a
couple more rail birds shoot out another double-jointed yell, and
McKeever jumps out again like an ice-yacht. He gets the holler at every
100 feet of his journey, the rail birds not taking any chances on his
stopping, although after the first furlong he is six lengths to the
good, and the result is that McKeever simply buck-jumps in, pulled
double, with eight lengths of open daylight between him and the even
money shot. The owner looks sad, like a man who hasn’t put a dollar
down, and says real hard things to McKeever when the horse is being led
to his stable. When he gets him inside his stall, though, the hugs and
loaf sugar that fall McKeever’s way are a heap. The old-time poolroom
people will tell you yet how they had to turn the box, a good many of
’em, the day that McKeever was hollered home at old Alexander Island.

"And, talking about Alexander Island, there were some funny ones yanked
off over there, sure enough, some of them almost as funny as a few that
happened over in New York at the legit tracks this passing season.
Without hurling out any names, I’ll just tell you of how a plunger who
has been a good deal talked about this year, on account of his big
winnings, got the dump-and-the-ditch at the hands of a
poor-but-honest-not owner at Alexander Island in the same year of 1895.
This plunger wasn’t such a calcined tamale in those days as he is now,
but he was some few, and he generally had enough up his sleeve in order
to keep him in cigarettes and peanuts; which is to say that he had a
winning way about him, and access to everything that was doing at that
outlaw track. He dealt in jockeys quite a lot, giving them their figure
with a slight scaling down, according to his own idea of what was coming
to them for being kind to him. He was wise and he was haughty, and
toward the wind-up of that Alexander Island season he fell into the
notion, apparently, that things had to be done his way or the kickers
fade out of the game.

"This poor owner that I’m talking about went on to Alexander Island with
an ordinary bunch of sprinters, all except one filly, that was real
good, but a bit high in flesh, and not ripe. It was a filly that could
as a matter of fact beat anything at the track, being right and on edge,
and she had the additional advantage of not being known all about. The
poor owner has his own boy along with him, and he’s pretty hard up. He
sticks this filly in a six-furlong event, with the idea of really going
after the purse, which he requires for expenses. He knows that the filly
isn’t right, but he dopes it that she can beat the lot pitted against
her, anyhow, and he really means her to win. He tells his boy to take
her right out in front and get as good a lead as he can, so that in case
her flesh stops her the rest’ll never be able to get near her. That’s
the arrangement right up until post time. The filly—well, suppose we
call her Juliet—is not very well known at Alexander Island, and she has
5 to 1 against her.

"Now, it happens that this plunger knows all about Juliet being, as I
say, a pretty fast proposition, but he doesn’t think she can win in her
condition, and, anyhow, he has something doing on another one in the
race; he has so much doing in the race, in fact, that all the rest of
’em, except Juliet, are dead to the one he has picked to play. The
plunger digs up the owner of Juliet and says to him:

"’My son, your baby won’t do to-day.’

"’She’ll make a stab, though,’ said the owner. ’I need the cush, being
several shy of paying my feed bills. The game has been throwing me
lately. She’s going to try.’

"’You need the purse, hey?’ said the plunger. ’That’s not much money.
Only $200, ain’t it? How’d $500 do?’

"’Spot coin?’ asks the impecunious owner.

"’Spot coin after my weanling gets the money.’

"’You’re on,’ says the poor-but-honest-not owner. 'I’m not any more
phony than my neighbors, but it’s a case of real dig with me just now.
Juliet’ll finish in the ruck. Are you cinchy about the one you’ve got
turning the trick?’

"’It’s like getting money in a letter,’ says the plunger.

"’All right,’ says the poor owner, ’you can walk around to my stall and
push me the five centuries after they’re in.’

"The poor owner saw his boy, and Juliet’s head was yanked off, with the
boy’s toes tickling her ears. She could have won in a walk, short of
work as she was, but the boy had a biceps, and he held her down so that
the plunger’s good thing went through all right.

"After the race the plunger, who had made a great big thing out of it,
hunted up the poor owner and beefed about the $500. He said that he
hadn’t been able to get as much money on his good one as he had expected
and asked the poor owner to compromise for $300. The plunger’s poor
mouth doesn’t tickle the poor owner a little bit, but he is a pretty
foxy piece of work himself, and he takes the three hundred without
letting on a particle that he thinks it a cheap gag. The plunger goes
away thinking he has the poor owner on his staff for good, and the poor
owner makes sundry and divers resolutions within himself, to the general
effect that the next time he does business with that plunger he’ll know
it.

"Well, the poor owner doesn’t race his good filly again for a couple of
weeks, and all the time she’s getting good. He gives her her work at
about 3 o’clock every morning, in the dreamy dawn, so that nobody gets
onto it just how good she is getting. He shoots her in about two weeks
after he has been dickered down by the plunger. He knows that she’s
going to win, and with his other skates he has picked up nearly a
thousand wherewith to play the Juliet girl to win. On the day before the
race the plunger comes to him again.

"’I see you’ve got that nice little girl of yours in to-morrow,’ he
says. ’How good is she?’

"’She’s got a show for the big end of it,’ says the poor owner.

"’Um,’ says the plunger. ’Well, she’ll only be at 5 to 1, whereas I’ve
got a cinch in that that’ll be as good as 15 to 1. Do you think we can
do a little business?’

"’On a strictly pay-in-advance basis, yes,’ says the poor owner, chewing
a straw. ’Maybe I’ll be able to see my way to delivering the goods for a
thousand down. Otherwise I win.’

"The plunger made a terrific beef, and tried persuasiveness, oiliness,
bull-dozing the whole works, with the poor owner.

"’Why,’ he says, ’I can buy all the Juliets from here to Kentucky and
back for a thousand.’

"’Yes,’ says the poor owner, ’but you can’t shove a 15 to 1 shot through
every day, either. Let’s not talk about it any more. You’ve got my
terms. Thousand down, right now, and Juliet will also ran. No thousand,
Juliet walks, and I’ll get the coin anyhow by betting on her.’

"He got the thousand two hours before the race was run. The poor owner
looked Juliet over, and called his boy into a dark corner of the stable.

"’Take her out in front, son,’ he said, ’and tow-rope them. Don’t let
’em get within a block of you. I’ll send your mother a couple o’ hundred
after you fetch her home.’

"’She’d win with a dummy on her,’ says the kid.

"Then the poor-but-honest-not owner takes the thousand he already has in
his kick, and the thousand the beefing plunger has given him, and
spraddles it all over the United States on Juliet at from 5 to 7 to 1.

"Juliet wins by fourteen lengths, and the plunger, with his mouth
twitching, hunts up the owner of Juliet. All he gets is a line of chile
con carne conversation, and, finally, a puck in the eye.

"’Do others or they’ll do you’ isn’t the way they used to teach it when
I went to Sunday-school," concluded the old-time trainer, "but there are
occasions when the rule just has to be twisted that way."




JUST LIKE FINDING MONEY.


    _A Bottled-up Cinch That Came Off at One of the Chicago Tracks._

"The first bet that I ever put down on a horse race," said a horse owner
and trainer at an uptown café the other night, "was on a horse that
stood at 100 to 1 in the betting. It was also the first race I ever saw
run by thoroughbreds. I was clerking in a Long Island City grocery store
for $8 a week at the time, and I didn’t know a race-horse from a ton of
coal. I got a couple of my fingers crushed between two salt fish boxes
one morning, and I had to lay off from work. I didn’t want to hang
around my room, and didn’t know what to do with myself, and so when a
no-account young fellow I knew suggested that I go over with him to
Monmouth Park and have a look at the races, I fell in with the
proposition. Besides the remains of my previous week’s pay, about $3, I
had $20 saved up out of my wages, and I kept this in one $20 note in my
inside vest pocket. After paying for round-trip tickets for my friend
and myself, and for two tickets of admission to the race grounds, I was
practically broke with the exception of a few cents, for I didn’t count
the $20 as available assets. I intended to hang on to that unbroken.
Well, I found that all my sporty friend wanted of me was to have me pay
his way on the train and into the grounds, for he promptly lost me as
soon as we got by the gate. I felt pretty sore at this treatment, not
that I wanted his help, for I hadn’t the least idea of doing any betting
with my savings, but I didn’t cotton to the notion of being played for a
good thing and then thrown that way.

"I walked around among the crowd with my hands in my pockets, wondering
a good deal over the dope talk of the ducks that knew all about the
horses and their preferred weights, distances, riders, and so on; it was
all Greek to me then. Finally I was shouldered and jostled into the
betting ring. It wasn’t long before I began to rubberneck at the prices
laid against the horses on the bookies’ blackboards. Although I didn’t
know anything about the nags then, I found out afterward, when I had
made a study of the game and got a little next to it, that this race I
made my first bet on was composed of a cheap mess of fourteen selling
platers. They were at all kinds of prices, from 4 to 5 on to 100 to 1
against. The latter price was laid about three of ’em. I didn’t exactly
understand what the 100 to 1 meant, and so I asked a fellow standing
near by to explain it. He looked me over out of the slants of his lamps,
thinking, probably, that I was stringing him. When he saw that I was a
green one he told me that the 100 to 1 meant that if a 100 to 1 shot won
that I had put a dollar on I’d be $100 ahead of the game. This looked
pretty good to me. I didn’t know anything about horse form or horse
quality then, and I thought that one of ’em had just as much chance as
another to win. So I picked out the 100 to 1 shot whose name I liked
best and elbowed my way up to a booky’s stand to put a dollar down on
it, holding my $20 bill tightly gripped in my hand. I passed the twenty
up to the bookmaker—he went broke, and has been a dead ’un for a good
many years now—and said:

"’Give me a dollar’s worth of that fourth horse from the top—that one
with the 100 to 1 chalked before his name.’

"The booky looked down at me contemptuously, without accepting the
twenty I proffered him, and said:

"’I don’t want no dollar bets.’

"Well, this made me feel pretty cheap, especially as all of the ducks
back of me, waiting to pass up their fifties and hundreds gave me the
laugh. I didn’t like to be shown up in that public way. I was just as
sore at that time about being made to look like thirty cents as I am
to-day. So I did a bit of lightning thinking. ’Twenty’s a big bunch to
me,’ I thought, ’and I’ve had to hop out of bed at half past 3 in the
morning to go to meat market a good many times to get it together; but
I’ll be hanged if I’m going to let this fellow get away with his idea of
making me look small, even if I haven’t got a show on earth.’ So I
passed the bill up to him again, saying:

"’All right, there, billionaire. Just gimme $20 worth of that fourth
horse from the top, with 100 to 1 chalked before his name.’

"I was chagrined to find that this strong play didn’t help me a little
bit. The booky only grinned as he chanted, 'Two thousand dollars to $20
on the fourth one from the top,’ and the chap that wrote me the ticket
grinned back at him, and the crowd behind me again gave me the hoarse
hoot, loud and long continued. I’ll bet I was blushing on the bottom of
my feet when I snatched the ticket and hurried away from that booky’s
stall, with the chuckles of the hot-looking members ringing in my ears.
Well, my horse walked in.

"When I went to cash my ticket for $2,020 the booky sized me up, with
all kinds of wrath in his eyes.

"’A good make-up you’ve got for a Rube,’ he said to me. ’You’re good.
That’s the most scientific commissioner act I’ve seen pulled off up to
date, and I’ve been at this game ever since Hickory Jim was a
two-year-old.’

"I didn’t know what he was talking about. The word commissioner was
particularly mysterious to me, but I wasn’t going to let him put it on
me again, and I like to have drove him crazy with the slow grin I gave
him. He chucked the bundle of $2,020 at me, and I just walked backward
with it in my hands and grinning at him. He was the maddest-looking man
I ever saw, before or since. I didn’t go back to my grocery job, nor did
I hop in and slough off my $2,000 on a game I didn’t know anything
about. I didn’t play another horse that year, but went in and made a
study of the game, going to the tracks every day to see ’em run and to
think the whole institution over. It has taken me all of the years that
have passed since to find out that the study of horse racing don’t
amount to a row of spuds, that study doesn’t beat the game. I simply had
a series of lucky plays after I figured it that I knew all there was to
be learned about horse racing, and those plays put me on the velvet I’ve
had to a greater or less extent ever since. I don’t often play them
now—I’ve got a fairly nifty string, and I run ’em and let the other
fellows do the guessing.

"What set me to thinking about this first play of mine was a letter I
received the other day from an owner, who’s racing his string down at
New Orleans, about the win of that plug Covington, Ky., the other day.
The price laid against Covington, Ky., was at first 150 to 1, and the
rail birds in the know battered it down to 60 to 1 at post time,
throwing all kinds of misery into the layers when the plater romped in,
after being practically left at the post. My friend says in his letter
that a big bookmaker declined to take a dollar bet from one of the wise
rail birds on Covington, Ky., at 150 to 1, and that the young fellow got
chesty, dug into the pocket where he kept his silver, found $2 in
quarters and halves, and handed the $3 to the bookie on Covington, Ky.,
to win. The layer took the money and it cost him $450. The bookie, my
friend writes me, has been poked in the ribs over the thing by his
fellow-layers ever since.

"I don’t often pay any attention to good things," continued the turfman,
"and it’s rarer still that I am compelled to regret my indifference to
the bottled-up cinches, but, in common with about 3,000 other people, I
overlooked a proposition at Lakeside last fall that caused me several
minutes’ hard thinking. I didn’t lose any money over it, but it’s hard
to think of the inside chance I neglected on that occasion to make an
old-fashioned hog killing. I had four or five of my three-year-olds out
at Lakeside and was pulling a purse down with ’em once in a while, and
depending on the purses to keep me even with the game and strong for hay
money. I wasn’t doing any betting; I took my confirmed indifference to
good things along with me to Chicago, and I think now, looking back at
the season, that I made a bit of a mistake in doing so, for if there’s
any place in the country outside of the outlaw tracks where good things
do have a habit of going through right often, then that place is
Chicago. I didn’t profit by any of ’em that were made to stick last
fall, however, although I saw many a sure thing soaked down from 20 to 1
to 4 to 1 at post time, and then come in romping with all the money. A
lot of men I knew out at Lakeside—fellows with small strings, none of
which ever won or got in the money—were on all kinds of velvet by giving
ear to the inside good things, but they didn’t make me jealous a little
bit. I’m in the game for keeps, and that’s more than can be said for the
good-thing players.

"Anyhow, for all that, I’m still regretting that I overlooked this
chance I’m speaking of. I was in a Dearborn street hang-out for racing
men one night, along toward the wind-up of the racing season, when a boy
came inside and told me a man out at the front door wanted to see me. I
went out and found a drunken stable hand waiting for me. He was employed
as a general stable roustabout by the owner of a California string, and
I had befriended the man in the paddock a few days before when he was
engaged in a rum fight with another stable hand. He was getting the
worst of the scrap when I stepped in and pulled his antagonist off of
him. It didn’t amount to anything, this, but the tank stable hand that
was waiting for me outside of the Dearborn street place in the rain
seemed to feel grateful to me for it.

"’Hello, Bill,’ said I to him, ’what’s up?’

"’Got fired this afternoon,’ he replied.

"’Broke?’ I asked him.

"’I didn’t hunt you up to touch you, boss,’ he said. ’I got a good thing
I want to give to you. You’ve been square to me. The good thing’s to
come off to-morrow, and nobody’s on. I’m preaching on it because I’ve
been dropped from the track just for getting a skate on, and because I
want to put you next, that’s been on the level with me.’

"’You can pass me up,’ I told the man. ’I don’t play the sure ones, you
know.’

"’But this is ripe, and it’s going to happen,’ persisted the man. ’It’s
a baby. It’s a looloo. It’s a cachuca. It’s that filly Mazie V. in the
two-year-old race to-morrow. You know who’s stable she belongs in. I
heard the chaw about it this afternoon before I got fired, and they
didn’t get on to it that I was listening. Mazie V.’s going to walk in
to-morrow. No dope, but she’s fit. She worked three-quarters in .15 flat
early yesterday morning when nobody was looking, and she’s on edge.
They’re going to burn up the books with it. I know that nobody can tout
you, and I’m not trying to tout you. But here’s a chance, and I came
down to let you know.’

"Well, of course I had to thank the man, but I couldn’t help but grin at
him at that.

"’How long have you been rubbing ’em down?’ I asked him.

"’I’ve been around the horses since I was ten years old,’ he replied.

"’And still so easy?’ I couldn’t help but say. ’Well, I won’t say
anything of what you’ve told me so as to queer the price, if there’s any
play on Mazie V., but, of course, as for myself, I pass it up; thanks
all the same to you. Need any money?’

"No, he didn’t want any money, he said. He had simply hunted me up to
put me on to one of the best things of the meeting, and he shambled off.

"When the books opened for that two-year-old race the next day, Mazie
V., a clean-limbed filly that had never shown a particle of class,
opened up the rank outsider in a big field, which included some very
fairish two-year-olds. I looked the books over, not because I was
betting, but just out of habit, and I saw that every nag in the race was
being played but Mazie V., the 150 to 1 shot.

"’If they’re going to burn the bookies out on Mazie V., I thought,
amusedly, ’it’s a wonder the stable connections don’t take some of this
good 150 to 1.’

"As I was thinking this over, the ex-stableman who had hunted me up with
the Mazie V. good thing the night before plucked me by the sleeve. He
was several times as drunk as an owl, and I didn’t care to talk with
him.

"’Are you down?’ he asked me, lurching. ’Because ’f you ain’t, you’re
campin’ out, an’ that’s all there is to it.’

"’Go and take a sleep,’ I told him, and passed on. But he didn’t want
any sleep. Instead, he drunkenly mounted a box that he found in the
betting ring, and started to make an address to the hustling bettors.

"’Hey!’ he shouted, ’if you mugs want to git aboard for the barbecue,
play Mazie V. She’s going to be cut loose. She’s a 1 to 10 chance. She’s
going through. It’s a cinch.’

"The crowd guyed him.

"’It’s so good,’ shouted the poor devil, ’that I just put the last $8 I
got on earth on her to win—not to show, but to win. Hey! I’m not
touting. I’m trying to give you all a win-out chance. You needn’t think
because I ain’t togged out that I’m a dead one on this. Even if I have
got a load along, why’——

"Just then somebody, probably an interested party, kicked the box from
under the man and he went sprawling. That closed him up. The crowd
roared, but not a man in the gang, of course, put down a dollar on Mazie
V. If any of the pikers had even a dream of doing such a thing the
stable hand’s drunken recommendation of the filly switched them off.
Just before the horses went to the post the $5 bills of people that
weren’t pikers, but stable connections, went into the ring in such
quantities on Mazie V. that she closed at 100 to 1 in a few of the
books, and at much smaller figures in most of the others.

"Well, the way that little filly Mazie V. put it all over her field was
something ridiculous. The race was something easy for her. There was
nothing to it but Mazie V. She got away from the post almost dead last,
and then picked up her horses at leisure, revelling in the heavy going,
and, loping up in the last sixteenth, walked in with daylight between
her and the favorite. It was one of the killings of the Chicago racing
season, and the books were soaked to over $20,000 on $5 bets.

"’That certainly is hard money to lose, to say the least,’ I heard poor
Mike Dwyer mumble on the day that he took 1 to 15 on Hanover, putting
down $45,000 to win $3,000, and Hanover got himself disgracefully beaten
by Laggard. And that’s what I think about that Mazie V. good thing—hard
money not to have won."




THIS SON OF FONSO WAS OF NO ACCOUNT.


 _But When He Did Take It Into His Head to Run One Day, the Bookmakers
                             Were Damaged._

An old-time trainer, who is trying out a bunch of yearlings and keeping
up a lot of old campaigners out at the old Ivy City track near
Washington, was chewing wisps of hay the other afternoon and thinking
aloud.

"One of the things that I can’t exactly figure out," said he, "is
whether I’m a ringer-worker or on the level. That proposition has been
bothering me a heap in the middle of nights right along since the fall
of ’87. I got into the center of a game then that has kept me
apologizing to myself ever since. And, then, again, that plug wasn’t a
sure-enough proper ringer. And I didn’t put him over the plate, either.
My end of it was only to cop out a few, and all I had to do was to——

"Well, anyhow, I went down to a yearling sale in Kentucky for the man I
was training for in 1885. There were some Fonso bull-pups to be
auctioned off, and the boss wanted a Fonso or two. You remember Fonso,
don’t you? He’s the old nag, a great one in his times, who got the blue
ribbon only the other day at the age of twenty-three for being still the
finest specimen of a thoroughbred in Kentucky. The boss wanted a couple
of Fonsos and I went after them. I got him two and myself one. The one I
got was the worst-looking he-scrag that ever wore hoofs. He was out of a
good mare, but he upset all the calculations of breeding. He was the
worst seed in looks that ever I clapped my eyes on; and I’ve been
fooling with yearlings for a quarter of a century. He was an angular
swayback, leggy, low-spirited, thick-headed, and as fast as a
caterpillar. Yet I bought him. I didn’t expect ever to make anything out
of him, but I was pretty flush then, and I didn’t want to see a Fonso
pulling a dray if there was a chance in a thousand of making anything
out of him. That colt was a joke. The whole crowd gave him the hoot when
he was led into the auction ring, and I couldn’t hold down a grin myself
when I sized up the poor mutt of a camel, the worst libel on a great
sire that ever crawled into an auction ring for a bid. The whole gang
jeered me when I offered $100 for the skate. I didn’t blame ’em. But I
led the colt out, put him in a stall, and then went back to the sale. I
got two high-grade Fonsos for my boss, and they won themselves out for
him twenty times over in the next three years. But they don’t figure in
this story.

"I went at my freak Fonso right away to see if anything could be done
with him. I devoted more time to that one than I did to any of my
two-year-olds or three-year-olds in training, hoping that he might have
something up his sleeve and that it could be dug out of him with careful
handling. It was no go. I couldn’t get him to do a quarter in better
than 35 seconds. Bat or steel had no effect on him. He had a hide like a
rhinoceros, and he made the exercise boys weary. Here was a colt born a
Fonso, out of a mare that had been of stake class when in training, that
was no better than a truck-horse, and at the end of two weeks I gave him
up. A circus came along to Lexington, where I had my string, and with
the circus, in charge of the performing horses, was an old trainer
friend of mine from the St. Louis track who had been chased into the
show business by a long run of hard luck. I took him out to look over my
bunch, and when he came to the Fonso colt he laughed.

"’Where did you get that world-beater?’ he asked me.

"’Oh, that’s a Fonso colt that I picked up down the line at a sale a
while back,’ I told him.

"He didn’t exactly call me a liar, but he looked as if he wanted to.
Then I told him all about the colt. Like most trainers, he had the blood
and breeding bug pretty bad under his bonnet, and he tried to throw it
into me that I wasn’t giving the colt a fair shake. Told me a lot of
stuff that I already knew about some great racehorses that couldn’t get
out of their own way as yearlings, and tried to convince me that this
Fonso thing of mine was liable to fool me up a whole lot as a
two-year-old.

"’Well, he doesn’t get oats at my expense until he’s ready to race,’
said I. ’If you think his chances at next year’s stakes are so devilish
big, he’s yours for a quarter of a hundred.’

"’I’ve got you,’ said my friend with the show. ’I’ll take him along,
anyhow. It’s worth that much to a man to be able to say to himself as he
smokes his pipe after his work’s done that he’s got a Fonso colt of his
own. And I’ll bet you an even $100 that I get one race out of that
swayback, anyhow, before he’s two years older.’

"I didn’t take him. I was disgusted with my hundred dollars’ worth of
Fonso, and I was glad to get the $25 that my friend in the show business
gave me for him. He took the mutt away with the show, and I forgot all
about that sentimental purchase of mine for a couple of years.

"I hadn’t any killing luck during those two years. In fact, the game
went against me pretty strong. Most of the string that I had in training
went wrong or showed themselves platers, and when the boss decided to
quit racing I was up against it completely. I had two or three platers
of my own that made their oats money and a little more, and these I
raced on the St. Louis track, pulling down a purse once in a while, and
getting second money often enough to keep me in coffee and sinkers. When
the St. Louis game closed down at the end of September, a number of us
that had small strings struck out for the bush-meetings in nearby
States. I shipped my three to a metropolis on the banks of the Missouri
River where a State fair was about to be held and where $200 purses were
offered for running races. I figured my three lobsters to be as good as
any for the bush-meetings, and I calculated on getting one or two of the
purses at this State Fair.

"I got into the town—they call it a city out there—with my horses three
days before the State Fair was to begin. On the day that I got there a
circus that had been exhibiting in the town for two days wound up its
season and started East for its winter quarters. I saw the boarded-up
wagons passing through the streets on their way to the freight depot. I
was watching the dead procession when my circus friend, the man on whom
I had worked off my no-account Fonso colt, picked me out of the crowd
and came up to me. The circus moving out was the one he had been
attached to when last I saw him and sold him the colt.

"’Hello,’ said I, ’how many stakes have you pulled down with that one up
to date?’

"He dug his hands into his pockets and grinned but made no reply.

"’Have you still got that colt?’ I asked him.

"’Yep,’ said he.

"’Going to take him along with you to the show’s winter headquarters?’ I
inquired.

"’Sh-sh-sh!’ said he. ’I’m not going along with the show. I quit ’em
here. Season’s over. I’ve got some business here next week, anyhow. I’m
going to race that Fonso on the Uncle Tom circuit, beginning with the
State Fair here.’

"Of course, I couldn’t do anything else but prod him, and I did.

"’Fact,’ said he, seriously. ’Got him entered in the first race on the
card—mile.’

"’I’ve got one in that myself,’ I told him. ’Shall we fix it up between
us?’ I added, just for fun.

"’You might do worse, at that,’ said he, sizing me up out of the tail of
his eye. ’I’m going to win in a walk.’

"Then I hooted him a good deal more, of course. He let me get through,
and he then took me off into a corner and told me some things.

"’That plug like to have broken my heart ever since I got him,’ he said.
’I’ve had him in four or five times already at the bush meetings, but he
was never one, two, three, until the last time, when he took it into his
head to run when they got into the stretch and was only beaten a nose by
a pretty fair bush plug. This was two months ago. The trouble with this
Fonso colt you sawed off on me is that he’s a sulker. He’s got the speed
in his crazy-shaped bones, but he won’t let it out. Well, between you
and me—and I put you next because I know you want a dollar or so as bad
as I do—I’m confident that with a douse out of a pail and a bit of a
punch with a needle just before post time, he can beat anything out this
way. He’s out at the Fair grounds now, and I worked him a mile in .48
this morning. He roars like a blast furnace, but his wind is all right,
nevertheless. He’s still as ugly as ever, if not uglier. I put you next,
because it might be a good thing for you to scratch your nag out of that
first race and cotton to your cast-off. There’ll be a big price on
account of his wheezing and his ragged looks.’

"’How did you enter him?’ I asked. ’As a Fonso?’

"’Not on your natural,’ said he. ’Any old thing’s eligible, and I simply
told ’em I didn’t know the mutt’s breeding, that I had him along with me
in the show, and just had an idea he might run a little.’

"Well, son, the winter was beginning to loom up, and I wasn’t ulstered
and swaddled out for it. I went out to the Fair grounds with my friend
and looked over the Fonso freak. My friend called him Star Boarder,
because he’d been eating circus oats and hay for two years without ever
doing a lick of work to pay for his fodder. The colt had, of course,
filled out and lengthened, but he was still as homely a beast ever I
clapped an eye on. We had him led out on the six-furlong track, and an
exercise boy who weighed about 145 pounds took him over the course at
top speed. The nag did it in 1.21, and the performance tickled me. The
colt had a crazy, jerky, uneven stride, and seemed to go sideways, but
he certainly got over the ground lively with that weight up. I saw the
chance, and I needed the coin.

"’Can he keep that gait up for the mile?’ I asked his owner.

"’He wants four miles,’ he replied. ’His roaring is a bluff.’

"’Count me in, then,’ said I. ’He’ll walk in that race. I’ll scratch
mine out.’

"We went along the line and looked over the other horses, especially the
twelve that were entered for that first race, and, although there were
some good-lookers in the bunch, they had been campaigned heavily for
months, and were a jaded lot. I scratched my pretty fair horse out of
that first race. Then I sold the poorest nag of my three platers to a
banker in town for a stylish saddle horse. Got $400 for him. I wanted
the money for betting purposes.

"There was a big crowd out at the Fair grounds on the day the racing
began. Four books were on, all of them run by representatives of big
gambling houses in town. My friend had the Fonso colt taken out of his
stall and slowly trotted around the track about three-quarters of an
hour before the first race, that in which the horse was entered. The
gathering crowd in the stand laughed over the horse’s awkward, climbing
gait and clumsy appearance. That’s what we wanted ’em to do. We wanted
the price, or the horse would have been kept in his stall.

"Only seven of the field originally entered for the race went to the
post. Now, I didn’t have anything to do with conditioning Star Boarder,
and I never belonged to the syringe gang, anyhow; I kept strictly away
from the paddock and the barns before the race, because I didn’t want to
see anything. But the way that Fonso colt, with all his clumsiness, held
his head up and pranced around as he was going to the post, with a
pretty fair boy that I brought along with me from St. Louis on his back,
by the way, was certainly great. Dope makes a horse about as perky as
three drinks of whisky makes a man who’s been off the booze for a long
while. The trouble is that the dope doesn’t last so long in a horse as
it does in a man, and I was pretty anxious for a prompt start, so that
the dope in this homely cast-off of mine wouldn’t die out.

"The betting on Star Boarder opened at 15, 6, and 3. There was an
even-money favorite, a horse that had pulled down a number of mile
purses at St. Louis, a 2 to 1 shot, and the others slid up to the nag my
friend and I wanted to have win; Star Boarder being the rank outsider at
15 to 1. I put my $400 down on him with the four booked all three ways,
$200 to win, $100 for the place, and $100 to show. In the morning my
friend handed me $200 of his savings from the circus business to bet. I
played his coin $100 to win and $100 a place. I had hardly got the money
down before I heard a big whoop of laughter from the stand, and I rushed
out to see what was the matter. Star Boarder was running away. There had
been a false break, and the fool plug had kept right on going. He had a
mouth like forged steel, and the boy couldn’t do anything with him. I
stood and damned Fonso and all his tribe to the last generation, and I
could see my friend in the paddock shaking his fist and grinding his
teeth.

"’Oh, well,’ said I to myself, ’it’s all off, and it serves you bully
good and right for not racing your own plugs and letting these con and
dope grafts go to the devil.’

"The horse went the full length of the course before he was pulled up,
and then he was roaring and wheezing like a sea-lion. The crowd laughed,
and the books gave the post-time bettors all the 60 to 1 against Star
Boarder that they wanted—which, of course, was none.

"I went back to the paddock then, while the horses were gyrating at the
post, and found the brute’s owner. I laid him open.

"’To blazes with casting up!’ he said. ’Isn’t the last of my cush on the
skate, too?’

"I felt like ten cents’ worth of dog’s meat when I slunk back to the
stand to see ’em get off. After fifteen minutes’ delay at the post—the
starter was a farmer—and Star Boarder blowing like a sand-blast and the
foam standing all over him from that little six-furlong sprint, away
they went in a line, Star Boarder in the lead! Star Boarder at the
quarter by a length! Star Boarder at the half by a length! Star Boarder
at the three-quarters by two lengths! Star Boarder in the stretch by
three lengths! And if that dog-goned, knock-kneed, bone-spavined,
no-account maiden Fonso colt didn’t just buck-jump under the wire by six
clear lengths of open daylight, you can feed me hay and carrots until
the next spring meeting and I’ll only say thank you kindly, sir!

"I can’t, as I say, make out whether that was a case of ringing or not.
Anyhow, it was up to the State fair people to make the holler if any was
coming, wasn’t it? They didn’t. The Rube bookmakers did, but they
weren’t sustained, and they had to dive into their satchels. Star
Boarder is over in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, to-day, pulling an old
lady around in a phaeton, and still holding down the distinction of
being the homeliest son of one of the handsomest sires in the history of
the American stud."




HARD-LUCK WAIL OF AN OLD-TIME TRAINER.


  _He Salts a 100 to 1 Shot Away for a Good Thing and Is Steered Off._

"Washington, as I remember it, was a pretty nice old jogger of a town,"
said an old-time trainer who got in at Bennings, the race-track near
Washington, a few days ago with a well-known string of horses in
preparation for the spring meeting there. "I’d like to have a look at it
again by daylight. Got in this time after dark and came right out here
before sunrise. First time I’d hit Washington for five years—since the
fall meeting at St. Asaph in 1894. I surely would like to have another
look around Washington. But I guess I’ll have to pass it up. I’m not
hunting for bother nowadays."

The paddock in which he stood is only a few minutes’ run by train from
Washington. It seemed odd, therefore, that he did not step on a train
and run over to Washington, since, as he said, he hankered for another
sight of it. He was asked about this:

"Well," he replied, "I’m waiting for five fellows that I used to know
over in Washington to die. When they’ve all cashed in, maybe I’ll have a
chance to look around Washington again. But I understand that they’re
all alive and on edge now, and I don’t exactly feel like running into
them. I know that I’d never be able to square myself for a thing that
happened down at St. Asaph during that fall meeting in 1894, so what’s
the use of stacking up against the bunch and wasting wind?

"I had a small string of dead ones at that St. Asaph meeting. I didn’t
get oats money out of them. That year was the frost of my life, anyhow.
I started in around the New York tracks in the spring with a bundle of
three thousand or so that I had hauled down by backing ’em out on the
coast during the winter meeting, and I began to melt before the leaves
commenced to show up on the trees. There was nothing doing for me. I
couldn’t get down right. Nearly a dozen good things that pals of mine
with strings had got into the pink of it to send over the plate at long
prices wound up among the also rans and the crimp those things took in
my wad was something ridiculous. I only handled a few horses during the
summer meetings that year on the metropolitan tracks. They were all
crabs and did no good. So I had to plug along by shying a ten or twenty
into the ring when I heard of something that looked nice. I couldn’t
even make this clubbing game go through. The books got two out of three
of my slips of the green, and I got to wondering how it would feel to
drive a truck. They certainly had me down that year.

"When the fall meeting at Morris Park wound up I had $200 and a
headache. I was figuring on how I could take this down to the winter
meetings in the South and run it up to something worth while, when the
owner of the bunch of dead ones I spoke of came along and asked me to
take ’em down to St. Asaph and try to get a race or two out of them. I
knew they were lobsters, all of these horses, and I was ugly enough to
tell the owner that when I wanted a job handling cattle I’d go down to
West street and get one, with a sea voyage to Glasgow or London thrown
in. There wasn’t a horse in the lot that could beat my old aunt in
Ireland over the plate for money or marbles; but I decided to take them
down to St. Asaph anyhow, just for the sake of keeping on the inside of
the game and finding out if there was anything going on that would
enable me to run that small shoestring of mine into a tannery. So I took
them down to that Virginia clay course across the Potomac and fixed them
up the best I knew how. They wouldn’t do. St. Asaph was getting some
good horses straight from the Eastern tracks then and my platers were
never in the hunt—never one, two, six, in fact. Worse than that, the
books began taking my little $2 and $5 bets away from me right from the
getaway, and I could see a winter ahead in New York with all the
trimmings cut out. I met a dozen or so of pretty square chaps in
Washington, business men that liked to see ’em run and that used to ask
me occasionally what I thought. I landed most of them right on several
dead good things without ever getting a dollar on myself from want of
nerve, my pile was so low, and they made good, all right, when these
things went through. But I was bunking up with such a hoodoo that I
sloughed off even this rake-off, and when the thing happened that I am
going to tell you about I only had $70 left out of the cozy cush I had
started in the season with.

"Now, I’ve been at this game, on both sides of the fence, for more than
twenty years, and, if any man is, I’m dead next to the fact that the
horse game is hard and craggy. I never yet was guilty of looking upon
the running game as something easy. Yet I’m bound to admit that I often
get what you can call, if you want to, a hunch on a horse. Something
that a plug does in his running, even if he doesn’t get near the money,
takes my eye, and from thinking about it I get a hunch on him. I don’t
get a hunch like this every day, or every week or month, for that
matter, but I’ve noticed that these hunches of mine have gone through
nine times out of ten during the past twenty years or so. Well, there
was a horse called Jodan that had run in two or three six-furlong
sprints at Morris Park that fall, and I had liked his work. He was out
of the money in both of those races, but I liked the way he went at his
work. That horse Jodan looked to me like he had it in him. These two
Morris Park races had been captured, one, two, three by good ones, and I
could see when I had a chance to look Jodan over in his stall that he
was short of work. The string to which the horse belonged had a poor
trainer, and I knew that a good trainer could get some six furlong races
out of Jodan. I had a hunch on Jodan, and I fixed it in my head that if
ever the horse got into the hands of a good trainer and was brought
around right for the six-furlong distance, he’d get a piece of my money,
no matter what company he was up against.

"Well, along toward the close of the St. Asaph meeting Jodan turned up
at the track with another trainer handling him—a man who had as good a
knack of conditioning horses as ever I met up with, and an old chum of
mine. I rubbed up with him before he had been on the track fifteen
minutes, and asked him what he was going to do with Jodan.

"’I am going to try him out in the first three-quarter event I can
squeeze him into,’ he told me, ’and I wouldn’t be surprised to see him
get a piece of it. His right fore-leg is a bit bum, but if it holds
together I don’t see why the fellows I know shouldn’t get a bite off a
real good thing in Jodan. He’s got a turn of speed, and I’ve got him
dead right. The only thing that worries me is that swollen knee, and I’m
doing my best at patching that up.’

"I told him of the hunch I’d had at Morris Park on Jodan, and he told me
to stay with it, and he’d attend to his end of it to help me out.

"’There’ll be all kinds of a price on him when I send him to the pump,’
he said, ’and I’ll let you know in time just how he is.’

"Well, that hunch just grew and grew on me. The Washington chaps that I
had met and pushed along with the good things that I didn’t have the sap
to play myself heard from me on the Jodan question. I told them that I
had him up my sleeve and to stand by. They had never heard of the horse
and they almost side-stepped when I told ’em he was as good as any of
them over a three-quarter route—that he had never been got right. There
were a lot of six-furlongers down at St. Asaph then that could negotiate
the distance in .15 flat, and they couldn’t see where a horse that they
had never heard of had a look-in with that kind. I held my ground,
however, and they said that when it was to come off they’d throw a
little bit of a bet at the bird, just because I said so.

"A couple of days later Jodan’s name showed up among the entries for a
six-furlong sprint, and I had another chaw with his trainer.

"’He’s good,’ he told me. ’Stay with your hunch. He ought to do.’

"The race was to be run on a Saturday. I looked up my Washington friends
and told them confidently what Jodan was going to do with a bunch of the
best three-quarter runners in training. Four or five of them couldn’t
help but give me the hoot on the proposition, and they said they weren’t
going over to the track, anyhow—too busy closing up the week’s business,
and so on. They couldn’t see where Jodan figured with the lot he was to
meet. I went around to the rest of these Washington fellows on the
Friday evening before the race and told them again about Jodan. They,
too, were all going to be too busy with the Saturday wind-up of business
to take in the races that day, but five of them gave me $10 each to put
on Jodan for them. None of them had any confidence in the thing, though.

"The Jodan race was the first on the card. There were fourteen entries,
and not a horse was scratched. The track was deep in dust, and I knew
then Jodan liked that sort of going. It looked like a cinch. I knew that
the bookies would be dead to Jodan, but I didn’t think they’d take the
liberties they did with him. The favorite opened up at 2 to 1, and he
was played down to 6 to 5 in no time. Then there were four or five shots
in it ranging from 3 to 1 to 15 to 1, when the rank outsiders were
written in all the way up to 150 to 1. Jodan, my mutt, stowed away for a
good thing, opened up at 100 to 1 and stuck there. I went out to the
stable where Jodan was quartered to find his trainer, but I couldn’t dig
him up. He was mixed up with the bunch in the paddock or in the stand.
So I decided that it wasn’t necessary for me to see him, anyhow, before
putting my money on Jodan. I had seen him the night before, when he
whispered to me that Jodan was gorgeous, and that he was going to play
him to win, no matter if the books laid 1000 to 1 against the horse.

"So I traipsed around to the ring to put down my money and that of my
friends on Jodan. As I say, Jodan’s price all over the ring was 100 to
1, and no takers. I had the five tens the Washington chaps had given me
and the last fifty spot I had on earth in my mitt, ready to shoot around
and plant it in $10 gobs on Jodan before the price could be rubbed, thus
standing to win $5000 for myself and $5000 for the Washington fellows,
with my share out of their winnings for putting them next. I was the
very next man in line to plant my first ten with one of the books, when
I felt a hard pinch on my right arm, and I wheeled around suddenly to
swat the duck that had given it to me. It was my friend, the trainer of
Jodan. He nodded me over to the little vacant space.

"’You were just going to take some Jodan, weren’t you?’ he asked me.

"’That’s what,’ said I. ’He’ll turn the trick, won’t he?’

"’No,’ he replied shortly. ’I’ve been trying to find you for the last
hour to tell you. The mutt’s got another twist during the night somehow
or another, and now it’s about twice its right size. Stay off. He can’t
do it. He’s not limping much, but I can’t see how he’ll go a quarter
with such a leg. It’ll be a miracle if that hard-luck skate finishes at
all.’

"This was a hard fall for me, I’m telling you that. I had been building
on it for one of my cinch hunch things, and to hear that it had gone
rank took the nerve out of me. Of course, in a dismal kind of way, I was
glad my friend the trainer had put me next to the state of things in
time to keep me off the dead one for my whole fifty and the fifty of my
friends in Washington, but that wasn’t much salve for the hurt I got
when he told me that Jodan couldn’t possibly do it. With Jodan out of it
I felt certain that the 6 to 5 favorite would come in all alone, and so
I put the whole bundle down that way $120 to $100. It made me glum to
think of the difference between that and $10,000 to $100.

"Then I went up to the stand to see the lot file past on their way to
the post. My horse, the favorite, was just a-prancing and looked to me
like a 1 to 10 thing with Jodan out. But my trainer chum had put me on
right. Jodan’s knee was as big as your hat, and he had his limp along
with him. One of the stewards noticed this and made a bit of talk about
not allowing Jodan to race, but when he was told that Jodan always went
to the post with a bum knee, even after his warming up, he closed up and
Jodan went around to the pump with his field.

"They got off the first break. The people in the stand were down on the
favorite almost to a man, and the yelp they let out when he shot to the
lead from the first jump was a heap noisy. My poor old Jodan plug was
almost left at the post, but his boy got him going all right, and I was
rather surprised to see him quickly join the rear bunch. By this time,
at the half, the favorite was just buck-jumping five lengths out in
front of the first division. Then the hind ones began to move up, and I
stood by to see Jodan get shuffled out of it. But he didn’t shuffle. He
passed right by the rear gang and nearing the three-quarters he was at
the saddle-girths of the front division and going like a cup defender in
half a gale.

"’You’ll chuck that in a minute, my boy,’ I thought, with my mind on
Jodan. ’Three-legged races look all right on paper, but they don’t go
through.’

"I lost the colors when they turned into the stretch, but I saw that the
favorite was still a good two lengths in front. The track was so deep in
dust that I couldn’t make out the others until they were well into the
stretch for the lope to the wire. Then when they were all settled down
to their barrels in the flying yellow dust, I saw one of the front
divisionites behind the leader shoot out around on the outside and bend
down to it. Say, I closed my lamps down tight. That horse coming on the
outside like a black devil, with his bit almost crunched into flinders,
was Jodan. I opened up my eyes when they were about sixty yards from the
wire. In the middle of the whirlwind of dust I saw the favorite
faltering, with Jodan a neck away and going like as if his distance was
only a quarter of a mile and he a-covering it there in the stretch. Then
I pulled my glasses away from my head, sat down, shut my eyes again and
shook hands with death for a few seconds while the Indians all around me
were howling ’Jodan!’ ’Jodan!’

"’Jodan wins!’ they yelled when the horses got under the wire, and I
opened up my eyes just in time to see Jodan with open daylight between
him and the favorite. That was a three-legged miracle, all right. I was
in a daze, but I had a picture in my head of five fellows in Washington
that had treated me right waiting for the race train to get in so that I
could hand them each a thousand. I couldn’t stand for that, and I had
too many different kinds of heartbreak warping me out under my vest to
feel like trying to explain the thing to them. So I walked over to
Alexandria and caught the afternoon train for Richmond, after leaving my
bum string in the hands of another trainer. From Richmond I went on down
to New Orleans, where I had some luck—never enough luck, though, to
square the game up with me for that win of Jodan’s, which made me feel
old and tired for a long time afterward.

"If I outlive those five Washington fellows, or they take it into their
lids to go to the Klondike together, maybe I’ll have another look around
under the shadow of that big dome yonder. But I don’t want to meet them.
Explaining’s too hard work, and the circumstances of that St. Asaph
happening, which occurred as I’ve spieled it, were ’agin’ me!"




STORY OF AN "ALMOST" COMBINATION.


  _It Paid $2,000 to $2, and Looked Like a Winner Until the Last Jump,
                                 But——_

There was a period of prolonged, nerve-racking excitement one afternoon
last week in a demure and retiring Harlem poolroom that doesn’t draw any
color line. A colored sport was threatening to tear the place loose from
its foundations and to fire a volley over the ruins—in a purely
figurative sense, that is to say. Literally he didn’t commit any breach
of the peace at all. But he had a combination ticket in his clothes for
a couple of hours that practically made all the rest of the people in
the place forget what they were there for. He was as black as that
overworked one-spot of spades. He was known to his envied intimates only
as Mose, and the very large checked suit of plaid that he wore had a
certain cake-walk suggestiveness, as did his huge red necktie, his
patent leathers with blue polka-dotted uppers, and his three large
yellow diamonds, two of them on his fingers and the other screwed in the
middle of his shirt bosom with crimson horizontal bars. He was a "spote"
all right.

He entered the poolroom alone, looked up at the board, and then dug a
bit of paper, obviously a telegram, out of his Oxford cloth Newmarket
overcoat. A man who was rude enough to look over his shoulders saw that
the telegram was a night message and that it bore the New Orleans date.
It contained the names of five horses, with the initials of the sender.

"He’s a po’tuh on uh Pullman," vouchsafed the sport to the privileged
character who had looked over his shoulder at the despatch. "An’ he’s uh
babe, yo’ heah me! He knows ’em lak he knows uh blackin’ brush. Ah’s uh
gwine tuh mek uh combinashun on de hull five. De ticket 'll win in uh
walk."

After sizing up the house betting on the New Orleans races for a few
minutes, he walked up to the counter where the combination tickets
exuded from the lightning calculator. Just at that moment there was
nothing doing at the combination counter. The sport produced his
telegram, cleared his throat, and began.

"Ah’s got de hull five babies," he said with a grin to the ticket
writer. "An’ ah’s uh gwine tuh tek ’em all tuh win. Doan’ want none o’
’em fo’ place or show. Dey’s all got tuh come in all alone."

"Shoot ’em out," said the ticket writer.

The sport named the five horses that he knew were going to win the New
Orleans races. They were, in the order of the races, Mint Sauce, Russell
R., Deyo, Benneville and Donna Rita.

The ticket writer executed his bit of lightning head work, with frequent
glances at the board to get the prices on the runners, and then he
looked up at the sport with a grin.

"Huntin’ for a hog killin’, ain’t you?" he asked. "Goin’ to put us out
o’ business? It figures a thousand to one. How much do you want on it?"

"Two dolluhs," replied the sport and he passed up the money. The ticket
writer pencilled the names of the horses down on the ticket, placed the
figures "$2,000 to $2" at the bottom of it, and handed the bit of
pasteboard to the sport with the remark:

"You’re a good thing. Come again."

"Yo’ all kin do yo’ hollern’ w’en de hosses run," was the sport’s
good-natured reply, and then he went to the extreme outer row of seats
in the pool room and sat down to wait for $2,000 to accrue to him on an
investment of $2.

Along toward 3 o’clock the betting came in on the first race at New
Orleans. The horse Mint Sauce that the sport had in his combination
ticket was the odds-on favorite, although he had been at a good price in
the house betting. The queer crowd of players surged up to the counters
to put their money down on things they liked, that figured all right in
the dope books; but the sport kept his seat. His speculation for the day
was over. He was simply waiting for his $2 to grow to $2,002.

Then they were off at New Orleans, as the telegrapher announced with a
bored air, electrifying the crowd into silence. It was a six-furlong
race, and there was nothing to it but Mint Sauce all the way. At the
three-quarters, when the telegrapher announced that Mint Sauce was third
and just galloping, the sport leaned back in his seat with an
it’s-all-over expression, snapped his fingers a couple of times for
luck, and said:

"It’s uh cake-walk fo’ dat baby. Ah’m on right so far."

"Mint Sauce wins by two lengths," announced the operator, and the
announcement was received with silence. Poolroom crowds don’t play
favorites as a rule.

"Mah nex’ is this heah Russell R.," said the sport, gazing at his ticket
again, "an’ Russell R. he’s dun got tuh win. Ah feels uh leetle
squeenchy uhbout he all, but Russell R. he’ll buck-jump in."

The betting came in on the race a few moments later, and Russell R. was
at a long price. Several horses in the race were at much shorter prices.
The sport didn’t look worried a little bit over this.

"Russell R. he’s dun got tuh win," he said, and that was all there was
about it.

"Off at New Orleans," announced the weary looking operator again, and
then he began to call off the way the race was being run. It looked bad
for the sport’s ticket until the telegrapher had carried the nags along
to the three-quarter post and then Russell R., who hadn’t been anywhere,
got his first call, joining the bunch as third at that stage of the
journey.

"Sadie Burnham in the stretch by a length!" announced the telegrapher.
"Lomond second by a length, Russell R. third," and then the sport began
to root for his horse. He swayed back and forth in his wicker rocking
chair, moaning, "Come, yo’ Russell hoss! Yo’ heah me uh-talkin’,
hoss—come, yo’ Russell—or yo’ doan’ git no oats—ketch him, yo’ baby, an’
yo’ pa’ll treat yo’ right"——

"Russell R. wins, by a head!" announced the telegrapher.

"Oh, yo’ wahm thing, yo’ Russell!" suppressedly exclaimed the sport, his
finger-snapping suddenly stopping and an upturned crescent grin
spreading over the whole area of his chocolate countenance.

It seemed that some of the less important sports must have been "riding"
Russell R. too, for their exultant "Uh-huhs!" rang around the room. The
colored sport dearly loves a long shot.

"De nex’ on mah piece o’ pas’e-boa’d," said the sport, ransacking
through his pockets again for his ticket, "is dain’jus. Ah doan’ lak dis
heah hoss Deyo, but Ah ain’t uh-playin’ whut Ah laks, but whut’s dun
sent tuh me. So Deyo she’s dun got tuh win, too."

It was after 4 o’clock by this time, and the poolroom was filling up
with young fellows turned loose from the down-town offices. Many of
these late arrivals had straight tips in the form of telegrams on the
third race at New Orleans and they almost overwhelmed the ticket
writers. When the betting came in on that race Deyo was at a long price,
much longer than the house betting had quoted the nag, and the sport
looked a bit anxious over this. His worried look disappeared, however,
when the second line of betting came in, showing that Deyo was being
backed down some on the New Orleans track.

"Dey’s sumthin’ uh-doin’ on that mule," he said, and the telegrapher
began to call off the race. It was something easy for Deyo, who beat the
favorite by three lengths. The sport didn’t have to snap his fingers or
sway in his chair at all. Deyo was in front all the way. Three-fifths of
the $2,000 to $2 ticket was won.

By this time the sport was the cynosure of a good many pairs of eyes.
The possibilities of the ticket he had in his pocket were whispered
about, and a number of the real things in the sport line edged over and
asked to have a look at the ticket.

"It’s a alimpey-boolera," they said, and they rubbed the back of it for
luck. Then a lot of them went up to the combination desk and got
combination tickets for the remaining two horses that appeared on the
colored sport’s ticket. By the time the betting came in on the fourth
race it was known all over the room that the sport had a $2,000 to $2
ticket with three of the horses already over the plate. The sport
enjoyed it all with becoming modesty.

"Dis heah hoss, Benneville, will now step out an’ run seben fuhlongs fo’
me," he said, referring to his ticket again. "Ah doan’ know mahse’f jes’
how good dis heah Benneville is jes’ now, but dis is his day tuh win by
uh block."

Benneville came in an odds-on favorite, and won by three open lengths.
The sport again was relieved of the necessity of rooting.

"Ah’n dun rode dat one mahse’f," he said grinning, and he found himself
in the middle of a crowd of sports of his own color.

"Look uh-heah, nigguh, doan’ yo’ all remembuh me?" a lot of them
inquired of him as they crowded around him.

"Remembuh nothin’," said he impartially. "Ah doan’ mek it mah bizness
tuh remembuh nobody."

"Hey, what does your ticket call for in the next?" was a question that
fifty men threw at him as he sat in state in his wicker rocker.

"De nex’ skate on de list," he replied, spelling out the letters on his
ticket, which was being rubbed a good deal for luck by all hands within
rubbing distance, "is de maiuh Donna Rita. Ah wouldn’t give $2 fo’ Donna
Rita mahse’f, de way she’s bin un-runnin’, but Donna Rita’s dun got tuh
walk in all by huhse’f dis time," whereupon he returned the ticket to
his pocket as if it already represented $2,002.

The sport had got down Donna Rita into his combination at a long price
in the house betting. When the first line of betting came in from New
Orleans, however, Donna Rita was seen to be the favorite for the race,
with a big field to beat.

"Donna Rita’s lak gettin’ money in uh lettuh," said the sport, and every
man in the room that heard these words of wisdom from the lips of the
man with the magical combination ticket in his pocket, played Donna Rita
to win. So here was the sport, enthroned like any monarch of Dahomey,
with the crowd surging around him. One of the white sports, waving a
roll as big as his fist, elbowed his way through the crowd surrounding
the colored sport and flatly offered him $500 for his ticket, after
looking at it and seeing that Donna Rita, much the best horse in the
next race, had her name inscribed there. It was a temptation, but the
sport was game, and stood pat.

"Dis heah ticket ain’t fo’ sale," he said. "De two thousan’s good enough
fo’ this coon."

Another man offered him $800 for his $2 ticket. The offer was declined.
There wasn’t a man in the crowd that wasn’t rooting for the sport’s
ticket to wind up all right, and to make their rooting more effective
they played Donna Rita to win the last race almost to a man. The less
important sports were keeping close to their brother in hue. They wanted
to be in at the finish—perhaps to help the sport to celebrate. At post
time there was hardly a man at the betting counters. They were all
hovering near the sport for luck.

"Off at New Orleans!" shouted the telegrapher, who knew about the
sport’s ticket by this time, and there was a note of unusual excitement
in his voice as he called off the race. "Donna Rita in the lead!"

"Oh, yo’ babe, Donna!" shouted all the "spotes" in unison, and "stay
right theah, yo’ nigguh!" shouted the one particular sport.

"Donna Rita at the quarter by five lengths!" called out the telegrapher,
and the poolroom might have been taken for an Emancipation Day festival.
"Donna Rita at the half by five lengths!"

"Ef yo’ lubs yo’ man, come uhlong!" moaned the sport in ecstasy.

"Donna Rita at the three-quarters by three lengths, Kisme second, Virgie
O. third," droaned the operator. "Donna Rita in the stretch by a head!"

The sport rocked to and fro and groaned.

"Virgie O. wins by a nose!" announced the telegrapher.

That settled the combination. The sport’s followers fell away from him
like autumn leaves from wind-tortured trees.

"They ain’t nothin’ in this horse-racin’ game, is they?" the frequenters
of the poolroom said to one another as they slouched out, and the
grating tones of the cashiers counting bills soon echoed through the
deserted room.




"RED" DONNELLY’S STREAK OF LUCK.


_He "Runs a Shoestring into a Tannery," and Then Gets the Cold Shoulder
                        from the Lady Fortune._

A party of turfmen in Washington for the Benning meeting were talking
the other evening of the remarkable streak of luck which has enabled
Billy Barrick to run a borrowed shoestring of $200 up to an amount which
is now said to approximate $100,000 in the last six weeks.

"Barrick’s double-ended luck, both at faro bank and horses," said one of
the bookmakers in the party, "is a whole lot out of the common. Luck is
a full-bred sort of an affair, and it does not often run along hybrid
lines. What I mean to say is that the man who has a huge run of luck at
one game almost invariably falls into the doldrums and goes all to
pieces when he switches to another game. The luckiest men I ever knew on
the turf, for example, were the unluckiest card players, and most of
them stubbornly spent a good many thousands of their pony winnings
before they found this out. Barrick seems to be an exception. He has got
into the current, and he could probably get away with the money at
fan-tan or Cingalese pool while he’s in his present shape. I’m a bit
afraid of him just now myself, and when I see his commissioners bearing
down on my book I’m sorely tempted to rub the whole slate until I get a
chance to rubberneck and find out what they’re after. If I were dealing
faro bank, so weird has his luck at tiger-bucking been lately, too, that
I believe I’d make it a thirty-cent limit when I saw him coming. But
he’s an exception, as I say. It’s the man who sticks to the one game
that drives the swaggerest dog-cart and wears the whitest gig-lamps in
the long run.

"I remember a chap out in St. Louis who ran a shoestring of five cents
up to pretty close to six figures in the summer of 1895. He bucked more
games in doing it, too, than Barrick has thus far, but he couldn’t go a
route, and they ate him up when the whisky got into his head in such
quantities that he saw treble without having a focus on anything. His
name was Red Donnelly, and he had charge of the bookmakers’
paraphernalia in the betting ring of the St. Louis fair grounds when the
Lady Fortune beamed upon that nickel of his and invited him to bask for
a time in her domain. He was a loose-jointed spraddle-shaped sort of a
young chap of 25 or so who had been hanging around the St. Louis tracks
from his early boyhood. He learned so much about the horses that he
could never win anything on them when he played in the ten-cent books
made by the railbirds. He handicapped them down to the sixteenth of a
pound, and the horse that he put his dime on consequently got beaten, as
a rule, by a tongue. He had been holding down the job of a dog-robber
for the bookmakers for two seasons before he struck his lead on that
nickel. He came out to the track one day, early in June, 1895, with the
solitary nickel reposing in the depths of his trousers’ pockets, salted
there to pay his fare back to the city. He got to pulling the five-cent
piece out of his clothes and looking at it longingly by the time the
first race was due. He wanted to get down on a race, but there were no
five-cent books. The bottom sum accepted by the railbird books was a
dime. Red strolled out to the barns and got to pitching nickels with a
pack of idle stable boys. The luck was with him from the jump, and when
he accumulated a dollar in nickels he exhibited symptoms of a man
suffering from chilblains. His reason for getting cold feet was that he
had a good thing in the fourth race, and by the time he had acquired the
dollar the betting had begun on the fourth race.

"Red hurtled himself into the ring with his dollar and saw that the
price offered against his good thing, the old nag Hush, was 60 to 1.
Donnelly needed a bundle of cigarettes and a few drinks pretty badly,
but he was game when it came to sticking to his good things, and he
slapped his twenty nickels down on Hush with a bookmaker he knew. He
took good-naturedly the mocking hoot which the booky gave him for
handing in twenty pieces of that kind of metal, and catapulted himself
out to the rail just as the horses went away from the post. The race was
really something silly for Hush, in the unwieldy field of nineteen
horses. Hush led all the way, and pranced under the wire first in a big
gallop, pulled double. The boy had Hush up in his lap all the way.

"Red had some difficulty in collecting his $61. The bookmaker knew him
well, knew of his taste for rum, and knew also that few of Red’s rare
dollars ever found their way to the humble shack of the man’s infirm old
Irish mother.

"’I believe I’ll just pinch this out on you, Red,’ said the booky to
him, ’and pass it along to the old lady when I go in to-night. It won’t
do you any good.’

"’Come to taw,’ replied Red. ’I want to put thirty or forty cents down
on the next race. I got another good thing in it.’

"The bookmaker reluctantly passed Donnelly the $61. Red carefully folded
the dollar bill and tucked it into his waistcoat pocket. Then he
invested the $60, in $10 clips, with six books, on Dorah Wood, in the
next race, at 15 to 1. It was a canter for Dorah Wood, and Red knocked
the bookmakers silly—they all knew him well from his working around the
place—by socking it to six of them for $150 each. A committee of safety
was immediately formed around Donnelly, but he couldn’t be held down. He
tossed a quart of wine under his waist-line, purchased a package of
cigarettes made in Turkey for forty cents, and looked over his dope-book
carefully. Then he strolled into the ring and bet $900 on Minnie Cee in
the last race. Minnie Cee was at 3 to 1, and it was something ridiculous
for her. She won on the bit, and Red was $3,660 to the good on that
nickel that he had salted away in his homespuns for the return trip to
town.

"When Red turned up to collect, Barney Schreiber—he’s a big-hearted
Barney—had him, as it were, by the scruff of the neck. Barney announced
to all of us that he was going to collect for Donnelly, and what Barney
said went with us, for we all knew Red’s propensities. Donnelly put up a
weak growl, but he knew ’way down deep in him that Schreiber could and
would take care of the cash better than he could or would. Barney
pinched $3,500 of the wad, inserted it in a separate compartment of his
wallet, and handed Red $150.

"’I’ll just let you have a little change, Red, said he, 'and if you
think you can run that up into a tan-yard, go ahead. But I’m a-going to
handle this for you the right way. You’re not tied enough in your ways
to have such a vast sum on your person all at one and the same time.’

"Donnelly didn’t demur much. The $150 was a huge sum itself for him, and
he, of course, knew that Schreiber would do the right thing with the
main bunch. As a matter of fact, Barney deposited the $3500 the next day
to the credit of Donnelly’s old mother, and Schreiber and the old woman
were the only people who knew anything about that end of it for a long
time afterward.

"We all gibed and roasted Red about the delirium-tremens finish we
foresaw for him, and when he didn’t turn up at the track at all on the
following day, necessitating the turning of his dog-robbing work over to
another man, there was a lot of talk about the tremendous barrel-house
toot Red must have gone on down the levee way. That’s where we were
camping out. When we picked up the papers on turning out the following
morning we found a scare-head story in one of them relating in great
detail and elaborate diction how one Mr. John S. Donnelly, a gentleman
well known on the Western turf, had swatted Ed McGuckin’s faro bank,
over in East St. Louis, to the tune of $16,000, playing steadily without
meals from 7 o’clock on the evening of Monday until 11 o’clock on
Wednesday night, when Ed turned the box on him and announced that it was
all off for the present. We all shouted ’fake!’ when we saw that, but a
couple of us hopped into a cab and crossed over to McGuckin’s place to
see if there was anything in the yarn. Well, there was everything in it.
We found Ed holding his fevered brow and mumbling deep, dark things
about damned vagabonds slipping into his layout and running shoe tongues
up into leather factories. We expressed our sympathies with Ed, for
which we came perilously near being kicked, and then we went back to St.
Louis to hunt up Red. We went over the barrel-house route with a
fine-tooth comb, but no Donnelly. Then we decided to drive out to his
mother’s little old shack. Our route from the levee out there took us
through the down-town district, and we both saw Red on the street at
once. We drew up alongside the curb, and called him. He was cold sober,
and he had $16,210 in bills in his inside waistcoat pocket. We asked him
where he was going, and he nodded in the direction of the swellest
tailoring establishment in St. Louis. We went along with him, and it was
one lovely sight to observe the fabrics Red picked out wherewith to
ornament his long, lithe person. He ordered a dozen suits, and then we
went with him to the haberdasher’s. He was all for green and yellow
neckties, pink-striped shirts, and that sort, and we let him have his
way. Then he became sleepy. We threw it into him pretty hard about that
big bundle of money he had on him, and he finally consented to come
along to a bank with us and deposit $14,000 of it in his name. We tried
to hold out for having it put in his mother’s name, but he wouldn’t
stand for that. After leaving the bank Red’s eagle eye caught sight of
the shiny things in a jeweler’s window, and he decided then and there
that he couldn’t go to sleep without having the third finger of his left
hand made conspicuous by a three-karat blue-white stone, for which he
coughed $500. That left him with about $1500 in his clothes, and we
dragged him then into the cab and drove out to his mother’s little old
shanty. The old lady had her little talk with Barney Schreiber about the
$3500 by that time, and the to-do she made over her ’bye Johnnie’ was
worth the ride to see. When we told her about the other bunch that Red
had copped and that we had plunked it into the bank for him, the
quantities of corned beef and cabbage which she threw into the pot for
the dinner which she wanted us to remain to share with her and her
phenomenal son were amazing.

"Well, Donnelly astonished us all for a couple of weeks by his
extraordinary conduct. He would ride out to the track in a hack, with a
gilt-stamped cigarette in his face, attend to his job as usual around
the betting-ring—that is, he’d supervise, for he quickly accumulated a
staff of worshiping touts and hangers-on—and then he’d go up into the
grand-stand to exhibit his cake-walk clothes and look at the races. He
didn’t put a bet down on a horse for two weeks. He remained pretty sober
all the time, too. We joshed him about the frigid pedals he had suddenly
got, but he only passed along with the remark: ’I’m letting ’em run for
O’Flaherty. Nothin’ doin’.’

"We waited for the crash, but it didn’t seem to come on schedule time.
One afternoon he called me aside and showed me his bank-book. It showed
an additional deposit of $5000, making the total $19,000.

"’When did you pick up that new roll?’ I asked him.

"’Went up against the wheel at Terhune’s last night, and yanked it out
in three hours,’ he said.

"’When did you learn to play roulette?’ I asked him.

"’Last night,’ he replied.

"Along toward the end of June Donnelly turned up at the track one
afternoon with a light in his eye. He went out into the paddock and
spent three-quarters of an hour looking at a horse and by that time the
third race was due. Red came into the ring and spread $1000 around on
Madeira at 10 to 1. It was a maiden two-year-old race, but Madeira
romped in two lengths to the good. That night Red, still moderately
sober and level-headed, had $29,000 to his credit in the bank. We began
to figure with a new brand of dope on Donnelly’s game and to consider
the possibility of his becoming a real fixture. A lot of owners with bum
skates tried to work them off on Donnelly at big prices, but he only
passed them the cold-storage smirk. This gave us an additional line of
thinks with regard to what we thought was his increasing shrewdness.
Besides, you see, Red began to be right good to us. He told us all very
soberly one afternoon that he had a good thing, but that he didn’t want
to hurt his own ring, so he’d send his money to the out-of-town
poolrooms. The good thing was David, who won the last race in a walk at
15 to 1, and Red cleaned up $15,000 on that.

"Right at this point, Schreiber and some other people got at Donnelly
and tried to induce him to either invest a part of his money—he had
almost $50,000 then—in a string of useful horses, to be put into the
hands of a competent trainer—or to have the whole bundle properly
invested in some sort of annuity, tie-up scheme whereby, when Red’s
streak of luck fizzled out, he wouldn’t have to go back to buying
cigarettes by the cent’s worth. The man was too bull-headed, though, to
listen to anything like this. He did, however, buy his old mother a fine
house and install her in it, and the old lady had stiff black silk
dresses and poppy-ornamented bonnets galore in which to go to mass.

"Meanwhile Red was going up against all kinds of games around town every
night, and it honestly appeared as if he couldn’t lose. Craps, stud
poker, draw, wheel, red and black, mustang, bank—all seemed to be right
in Donnelly’s mitt. A lot of us used to turn up where he was bucking
things every night, and, following his play, we always got the good end
of it. He didn’t know much about any of the games, and the idiotic
things we had often to do in order to consistently follow his play made
us gag, but nine times out of ten them came out right. One man in our
party, a bookmaker, who determined to copper all of Red’s play at the
different games, on the theory that Donnelly’s luck had to turn some
time or another, almost went broke before he came into the fold and quit
coppering.

"All of this time Donnelly had simply been nibbling at the red stuff. By
the time his great luck was a month old, however, the booze had nailed
him, and he got to throwing in the hooters early in the morning. A man
can’t drink in the morning and hang on either to luck or judgment. Red
came into the ring palpably drunk one afternoon and spread around
$20,000 on Strathmeath at even money. None of us wanted to take the
money, for if ever there was a rank in-and-outer, that horse was
Strathmeath. But Red was insistent and a bit ugly, and we accommodated
him. Strathmeath ran third, beaten out by two dogs. That night Donnelly
dropped $20,000 more at faro. Then he didn’t go to bed for five nights,
and at the end of that time he had about $6000 left. I never saw luck
drop away from a man like it did from Red Donnelly. For instance, he was
whacking at a bank one night, stupefied with hooters of half rye and
half absinthe, and he shut one eye so he wouldn’t see double and fixed
it on the nine spot. He played the nine open for $100 a clip, and lost
it twelve straight times. The frowns of the Lady Fortune got his nerve,
and he began to play favorites at the track. The favorites went down to
inglorious defeat, one after another, for days.

"Some of the right kind of people, including Schreiber, got hold of Red
when he had only the $6000 left, landed him in a fix-up ward, and
sobered him up. When he came out Donnelly was set up with an interest in
an express business. I don’t believe he ever saw the inside of the
express office more than half dozen times, except to draw what was
coming to him. He was at the track all the time the races lasted, and
when the season closed he put in his time down on the levee. He never
had a day’s luck after his big streak up to the last hour of his death,
somewhat less than a year after they came his way with a whoop and a
rush.

"When the goddess smiles upon you, you want to stroke her hair, chuck
her under the chin and be good to her, for she rarely acts amiable twice
to a man who treats her favors wantonly."




AND "RED BEAK JIM" TOOK THE TIP.


_Plunge Made by a Hackman on the Suburban Handicap Won by Kinley Mack._

"We’ll get Red Beak Jim to hike us down in his caloosh," said the main
guy of the four. The four were job holders in one of the New York city
departments, and they were talking about ways and means of reaching the
Sheepshead track for the Suburban.

"Good thing," said the three others. "Go on and ask Jimmy for a figure,
down and back, for the bunch. Hey, and don’t let him dicker you out o’
your gilt teeth. Jimmy’s a robber."

So the main guy of the four sprinted after Red Beak Jim. He found him
with the major portion of his countenance immersed in the collarette of
an open-faced malt magnum.

"Hey, Jim," said the main guy, "hitch ’em up and bring ’em around about
noon. Down to the Bay and back. There’s four of us. What d’ye say to the
note for $10 for the job?"

Red Beak Jim removed the mammoth piece of glassware from his face long
enough to remark:

"Nothin’ doin’."

"Ain’t, hey?" said the main guy. "The old caloosh’s fallen apart at
last, hey?"

Red Beak Jim sat the beer-glass down and wiped off his mouth with the
back of his coat-sleeve.

"It’ll be jugglin’ around when you’re yelling for ice at any old price a
hunnered," said he. "Nope, I’m ’ngaged f’r th’ Bay."

"Say, you’ve got your fingers crossed or your suspenders," said the main
guy. "Give you fifteen for the job."

"Goin’ t’ take three down," said Red Beak Jim. "Ten a head. Sorry I
didn’t ask ’em fifteen. Trucks is chargin’ ten a head."

"Ten a head," said the main guy, sarcastically. "What in, zinc money?
Hey, pull around, Jim, or you’ll lose a wheel. Ten a head? Get away with
that hasheesh. Give us a figure."

"You’ve got it," replied Red Beak Jim. "Ten per, round trip. I’m a good
thing at that. But I’m ’ngaged."

"So’s me little sister," said the main guy. "All right, work your edge.
What’s ten a head to us, at that? Hey, we got the baby to-day, Jim, and
you want to put some braces under that old caloosh. We’ll have two ton
o’ money coming back. Bring ’er around, then, at noon. Say, you ought to
get a pair o’ knucks and a sandbag. You’re too good on the clutch to
push a caloosh around. Have ’er there prompt at noon, now, Jim."

"Sure," said Red Beak Jim, and he was there at noon, all right, with the
hack all varnished up and dusted off, and the pair looking fit to reel
off a mile in five minutes, on the bit. The four were inside, stirring
their pieces of ice around with the spoons, when Red Beak Jim pulled up.
He jumped off the seat and stuck his head in the door.

"At the pump, gents," said he.

They yanked him in to have one before the start, and they all got him
over into the dark corner. Then the main guy addressed him.

"Jim," said the main guy, "we’re handing this to you because you’re all
right—from the heels down. On the level, though, Jim, we pass this along
to you because it’s right. It’s prepared. It’s a nightingale in the
woods, and it’ll be singing when all the rest of ’em are still trying to
find out where the wire is. Horse of the century? Nix. Not for these
little Willies. The black, let ’er sleep wonder? Not. We stay out there.
The Whitney thing with the Frenchy name? Hoot, mon. Pass this squad by.
Nope. We got it right, Jimmy. And we’re handing you the forty bucks now
so’s you can plant it right. Here’s the forty—and say, you want to
remember that you’re paid, see? Well, you get over the fence somehow—let
a kid take care o’ your two goats and the caloosh—and you put the whole
forty on Kinley Mack. See? Got that chalked? You put the forty on Kinley
Mack, and part o’ the two ton o’ gilt we’ll have on the come-back ’ll
belong to you. Kinley Mack’s going to stand ’em all on their heads and
twist ’em round. Don’t say we didn’t put you next. Uneeda win. Well, you
win. Nothing to it. Kinley Mack. Ain’t that right, you ducks?"

"That’s right, all right," said the other three, all together.

Red Beak Jim emptied the flagon thoughtfully.

"I got mine at that game," said he finally. "They made a bum o’ me
before you people was through playin’ jacks. They can run f’r Hogan.
These"—salting away the two twenties the main guy had handed him—"will
do f’r me. I don’t want t’ git rich fast, nohow. I’d booze meself
foolish. Much ’bliged, gents, but I can’t see no Kinley Macks or Billy
Bryans, f’r that matter, wit’ a spy-glass."

"All right," said the main guy, disgustedly. "But when the ring’s around
Kinley Mack, and they’re paying off the wise people on him, you want to
muffle the bleats you’ll have coming, see? Don’t say we never dished you
up a hot one. You’re a sport, Jimmy, and so’s a tadpole. You’ll never
butt in among the first six. All right. Come on, you people."

They clinked the pieces of ice against the sides of their glasses once
more, and then they climbed into the hack and were away in a row, to a
good start.

At each of the seven places at which they stopped for ice, with
trimmings, on the way down to the Bay, they announced to friends that
they met that it was only going to be a one horse race.

"Run on a fast track, hey?" said the main guy to everybody he knew at
the stops. "Say, that’s his graft. That’s his main plant. A race-horse
can run on any old kind of a track. Say, you get tied up with this horse
of the century business and you smoke stogies for a few months.
Ethelbert, the horse of the century, hey? Say, d’je ever happen to hear
of Salvator and Tenny and Hanover and Lamplighter and Henry of Navarre
and Sir Walter and Raceland and Hamburg and a few old two-dollar mutts
like that? Did, hey? Well, say, do they butt in? Say, Hamburg could’ve
run backward as fast as this horse of the century that you people have
all got the bug about. Kinley Mack! Kinley Mack! Hey, fellers?"

"Thash ri’," said the other three, and then they climbed into the hack
again.

When they got down to the track entrance and alighted the main guy of
the four, still mindful of his duty toward struggling fellow men, made a
final appeal to Red Beak Jim.

"Jim," said he, "how about taking our steer, hey? This is the good thing
o’ the year. It’s going to be a long summer. Going to put that forty on
Kinley Mack?"

"I’m goin’ t’ take a nap after I have a smoke," replied Red Beak Jim,
filling his pipe.

The four walked away with an air of disgust, while Red Beak Jim grinned
after them.

Each of the four had a one-hundred-dollar note wherewith to back Kinley
Mack off the boards. The temptations of the first three races, however,
collared them, and when the slate went up for the Suburban they each had
a fifty-dollar note wherewith to play Kinley Mack, the good thing. When
the horses were at the post for the third race, the main guy, who
happened to be standing close to the fence that separates the
grand-stand crowd from the people in the cheap field, saw Red Beak Jim,
with his hands in his pockets and his pipe in his mouth, leaning against
the rail. He called the hackman, and Red Beak Jim approached the fence
with a grin.

"Thought you’d get on, anyhow, hey?" said the main guy.

"Naw, I jes’ crep in t’ see ’em run an’ hear th’ hard losers tell how it
was they lost," said Red Beak Jim. "Nothin’ doin’ wit’ me."

"Ain’t going to put those forty on Kinley Mack, hey?" asked the main
guy.

"Not if I’m awake," said Red Beak Jim, and the main guy walked away from
the fence with an expression of commiseration on his face.

The horses were still at the post for the third race when the main guy
was approached by a horseman he knew. The horseman was chewing a straw.
He looked very wise.

"Cashed yet on Imp?" the horseman asked the main guy.

"Hey?" asked the latter, bending his ear.

"Only a canter for that one," said the horseman, in a low tone,
temporarily removing the straw from his face. "Just a little exercise
gallop for the black filly."

"Say, is that right?" inquired the main guy. "Is she so good as all that
to-day?"

"Surest thing you know," said the horseman. "She’ll give ’em all a
fifty-pound beating or I don’t know a hoof from a currycomb. I’m only
spinning this along to the people I’ve got some use for. That’s the
reason I dip it up for you."

"But say," whispered the main guy of the four, "I got it straight as a
ramrod on Kinley Mack."

The horseman smiled benignly.

"On this track?" said he. "That one wouldn’t beat a fat man on this
track. He wants slop and slush. I’m only telling you, that’s all. You
splurge on Imp, and it’ll be all yours."

"I always was stuck on that darned old mare, anyhow," mused the main guy
of the four, as he walked off in search of the other three. "She sure
can rip the air when she’s ripe. Got a thunder of a notion to switch to
her at that. That fellow ought to know. He’s been handling ’em long
enough. Kinley Mack only a mudder, hey? Had kind of a hunch that way
myself, but I didn’t want to own up. Last week, before I got this Kinley
Mack thing, I was sure going to play Imp, and I’d feel like a nickel’s
worth of lard if she’d go out and spread-eagle 'em now that I’ve got
this Kinley Mack thing."

He stood still for a moment with his hands in his pockets, oblivious of
the jostling crowd, and then he slapped his thigh.

"I’ve got the hunch—it’s Imp!" he muttered. "Lemme find the fellers and
put ’em next."

He found the other three. They were putty when the main guy told them
what the horseman had said. They’d always liked Imp, anyhow.

Their four fifty-dollar notes went on Imp straight, when the slates went
up. They all stood together and rooted for the black mare when the
horses got off. When Kinley Mack romped in, an easy winner, they didn’t
say anything at all. They didn’t even look at one another. They avoided
one another’s gaze, thrust their hands deep into their pockets and
studied the jockeys as they dismounted. When the first numbness had
passed the main guy of the four led them to the bar and they drank the
longest one of the day in silence. They looked up into their glasses as
they twiddled their spoons, but they didn’t look at one another.

There was $17 still left among the four—not enough for any sort of
celebration or doings when they got back to town. So the main guy
gathered up the $17 in silence and put it all on a horse at 10 to 1 in
the fifth race, with the idea of running the shoestring into a tannery.
The 10 to 1 shot was never in the hunt at any stage of it, and they were
all out. Silently they wended their way out of the gate.

Red Beak Jim was sitting on the seat of the hack, with his legs crossed,
smoking a pipe. He looked interested when the four came along.

"Youse people must have all kinds," said he.

They climbed into the hack without a word.

"D’je play that one?" inquired Red Beak Jim, picking up the lines.

"Ask me aunt," growled the main guy.

Red Beak Jim clucked at the horses, and they moved off in good style.

The hackman pulled the horses up alongside the step in front of the
first roadhouse.

"Hey, don’t get too glad all of a sudden," growled the main guy to Red
Beak Jim. "Who told you to do that?"

Red Beak Jim disposed of the lines and stepped down without making any
reply, while the four watched him gloomily. Then he grinned, hoisted up
the right-hand front flap of his livery coat, dug into his right-hand
trousers pocket and pulled out a wad about the size of a healthy
cantaloupe.

"I’ll ask youse gents to split a couple o’ quarts on me," said Red Beak
Jim. "I got 8 to 1 f’r me forty."

They gazed at him and his wad with their jaws dropping.

"Did you play Kinley Mack?" they gurgled in unison.

"That’s the one youse people said, ain’t it?" inquired Red Beak Jim. "I
t’ought I’d take a little flyer on him, jes’ f’r luck."




THE GAME OF RUNNING "RINGERS."


_And How He Got a Horseman Without Much of a Conscience into Hot Water._

"No Man alive can afford to lose the friendship even of a yaller dog.
Not even an ornery yaller dog can you afford to have agin’ you at any
stage of the game. The dog’ll get back at you one time or another,
sooner or later, and take a mouthful or two out of you, if you haven’t
had sense enough to keep him on your staff of friends."

The man who used to make a business of putting ringers over the plates
at the outlaw race-tracks had passed from the reflective to the
confidential mood. Perhaps the rings which he made on the cherry table
with the bottom of his glass suggested circular race-tracks to him.
Perhaps the prancing of the fox-terrier pup in the back room made him
think of horses kicking up at the post. But, whatever the cause of it,
his burst of confidence was unusual, and the other men at the table
listened to him attentively.

"My yellow dog was a yellow man—that is, the one I’m thinking about just
now," he went on. "He took a hunk out of me down at Alexander Island,
Va., near Washington, about five years ago. He had me out. All he had to
do was to count ten on me and take the pot, and he knew it. He worked
the edge. I didn’t blame him a bit then, and I don’t now. But it was
hard money to lose. When I get hold of the right end of a bulge on a man
that I’ve got it in for, I don’t hesitate to work it myself—but I always
feel a bit sorry for a man that I get up into a corner, all the same.
This yellow man felt sorry for me. He showed it. He was about as
sympathetic a yellow man as ever I saw on the occasion I’m going to tell
you about. But he wouldn’t let go, for all that. He needed the money, of
course, but then he wanted to get back at me, too.

"’I’se dun got de aige on yo’ all, boss,’ he told me, 'an I’m sure
a-gwine t’ wuk it laik uh mean nigguh. But yo’ dun me dutty, Cap.’

"You see, I had employed this yellow man as a stable hand when I first
got my string of ringers together and took them out. He was all right
for the first few months of the winter campaign, but then he began to
get jagged on me with a heap of regularity. He got mixed up with that
gin that they keep on hand in Maryland for the Afro-American trade, and
it spoiled him for me. He was no use whatever after the gin took hold of
him. I warned him a lot, but it did no good. I was a little bit afraid
of the job, for he knew a good deal about my string, but I finally
decided that I’d have to take a chance and fire him. I turned up at the
track stable one morning—this wasn’t more’n a million miles from
Baltimore—and I found my yellow man Lem sulky and ugly drunk, and the
string chewing on their stalls. I gave him a boot and a hist out of the
stable and told him not to come back.

"’This yellow man’ll probably queer me,’ I thought at the time, ’but I
can’t go along playing 1000 to 1 shots like him for favorites. If he
peaches—well, there are other States besides Maryland.’

"I was rather surprised that he didn’t come back when he got sober. But,
nope, he didn’t come back at all. I got another stableman and during the
following week, the last of the meeting, I pulled off three good painted
things with as good as 15 to 1 around two of ’em, without yellow Lem
turning up to pester me at all. I thought of him a good deal. Every time
I got one of my plugs at the post I stood by to see the yellow man walk
into the judges’ stand and give me away. I’ll bet I lost ten pounds
worrying about that darkey and what he might do during that last week in
Maryland. I felt as light as a snowball when I got my string out of that
State and over at the Alexander Island track, near Washington. When I
got ’em all safe over there, says I to myself, 'This yellow ex-man o’
mine is probably back in Thompson street, with his carcass full of gin
by this time. So I’ll just cut out the worry about him.’

"Well, I started in at the preliminary work of pulling off a real swell
thing at Alexander Island. It was about as easy to enter a horse down
there as it is to go broke up here, and I put the best one of my lot in
the overnight races for a week. I entered him as a half-breed from a
Warrenton farm—a maiden six-year-old. It went through easy, the
overnight entering did, and I began to lay my horse up for a price. The
horse had done a mile in 1.40-1/2 and he had the whole bunch down at
Alexander Island outclassed by 212 pounds. The plug had belonged to the
best of the Western selling-plater division as a three- and
four-year-old and he had been in a few stakes at that. I got him as a
five-year-old and he surely was a meal-ticket for me. He wasn’t painted
a bit—you didn’t have to dye ’em at Alexander Island. If Hanover had
been an outlaw you could have stuck him into any old race down there and
they’d never have got next.

"I had a boy along with the string who’d been chased off the Western
licensed tracks for funny work, and what that boy didn’t know about
riding like as if his life depended on his winning, and forty wraps on
his mount all the time, wasn’t worth knowing. Say, he had six separate
and distinct bridle welts on both of his forearms that he got in pulling
horses. He was invaluable, that boy. When we were out to win he never
made anything but a nose finish of it even if our horse was up against
the worst set of outlaw dray-plugs in training. Oh, that boy knew his
gait all right! I did the best I could to keep him from going to Joliet
for pocketpicking in Chicago a couple o’ years ago, but it was no use.
He’s still doing his bit.

"Well, I had him sail this good nag of mine over the course in seven
races the first ten days of the meeting. The horse was a bit too likely
looking, and there was only 5 to 1 against him in the first race. He
finished fourth. The boys in the ring quoted 8 to 1 around him in No. 2
race, and he finished sixth in a field of seven. And so on. He was in
the ruck in most of the races, and he finished the last two of the seven
a rank last. By that time you could have written your own ticket if you
wanted to play him, which is what I was waiting for. My boy complained
that during the last three races he had all colors of trouble in holding
the horse in.

"’You’d better open the watermelon quick,’ said he to me after the
seventh race, ’or I’m liable to lose him and win the next time out.’

"And so I had the pie counter all spread out for his next time out. It
was a six-furlong race, which was my horse’s distance. Two of the cracks
of the outlaw brigade were in the race, and they both opened up at even
money. Then one of ’em was played down to 1 to 2 on. It was a
twelve-horse race, and my nag opened up the rank outsider with any
amount of 100 to 1 quoted around him. I didn’t want to be too chesty and
spoil my dough, and so I only took $50 worth of it, scattering it around
in $10 gobs. I reckoned that $5000 would be a good-enough pulldown on
the race, and I didn’t want to take any chances on being shut out of the
game down at Alexander Island. I put a few of the boys I knew next to
what was going to happen, told ’em not to go it too strong or they’d
queer me, and they mixed up $5 all over the ring on my 100 to 1 horse,
that should have gone to the post at 1 to 100. They broke the price down
to 30 to 1, but that didn’t make any difference to me, for I had picked
up all I wanted of the 100 to 1.

"When they went to the post I picked out a spot on the rail some
distance away from the grand stand to watch the race. I felt pretty
good. I knew it was going through. My horse had worked the six furlongs
in 1:16 flat the afternoon before, and I knew that he was easy money.
The only thing I was afraid of was that he would get away from the boy
and beat the bunch by eight blocks, thus bringing me into the judges’
stand on suspicion. I was thinking of all these things when I heard a
voice behind me.

"’Aftuhnoon, Cap,’ said the voice. ’How’s yo’ all tuh-day?’

"I looked around. The voice belonged to Lem, my fired yellow stable man.
Lem was sober, and got up as if for a cake-walk. He had business in his
eye, too.

"’Hello, there,’ says I, kind of coddingly. ’How’re you cutting it?’

"’Oh, tol’able, boss—tol’able,’ he replied.

"’Where are you working?’ I asked him.

"He smiled blandly in my teeth.

"’I’se a-wukkin’ yo’ all dis aftuhnoon, boss,’ said he. 'But I ain’t no
hog. Jes’ half o’ de rake-down’ll do me. Mus’ hev dat much, fo’ sure.
Jes’ nachully need dat much.’

"’What the devil are you talking about?’ I asked him, but I knew he had
me where he wanted me.

"’Well, yo’ see, boss, it’s jes’ dis-a-way,’ he replied. 'I’se a-gwine
tuh quit rubbin’ dem down an’ take tuh speculashunin’ m’sef. I’se
a-gwine tuh staht fo’ San Francisco tuh see whut all I kin do with de
bookies out da-a-way, an’ jes’ nachully needs de coin tuh go on out an’
begin wuk on ’em. Dis yeah’s uh good one yo’ all’s pullin’ down tuh-day,
an’ I was trailin’ yo’ w’en yo’ all put yo’ bets down. Yo’ stan’s tuh
win $5,000 on de ole hoss, an’ yo’ll win it. I’ll take ha’f o’ dat,
boss, an’ go on out tuh de coast tracks with it.’

"I think I must have been looking pretty hard at that yellow man when he
slung me this spiel. Oh, he had me all right. It was my looking at him
so hard that made him get off the rest of the speech:

"’I’se dun got de aidge on yo’ all, boss, an’ I’m sure a-gwine tuh wuk
it laik uh mean nigguh. But yo’ dun me dutty, Cap.’

"As I say, I knew he had me, but just out of curiosity I shot this one
at him:

"’S’pose, you yellow devil, that I don’t cough up a red of it? What
then?’

"He grinned and rolled his eyes over toward the judges’ stand.

"’I’d jes’ nachully be obleeged tuh do de bes’ I could fo’ de
proteckshun o’ de spoht o’ racin,’ he replied.

"The horses were still making false breaks at the post and it was too
late for me to hop into the ring and lay enough down to win $2,500 for
the yellow man and still have $5,000 to the good myself. It was a sore
game, that, but I had to stand for it.

"’All right,’ I said to the darkey, ’you’ve turned this trick and you’ll
get the $2,500. But you want to go West with it, as you say you are, or
I’ll get a night doctor or two on your trail. Chop away from here and
I’ll see you after the race.’

"’I knows yo’ will, boss,’ said the yellow man, giving me that
triumphant grin of his, and he turned and went down the rail to take in
the race. Race, did I say? Oh, it wasn’t a race. My horse got away from
the post three lengths to the bad, and he trailed after the bunch
dismally all the way around to the stretch turn, but I never had a
quake. I could see, if nobody else could, that my boy was ripsawing the
horse’s mouth, and I knew it was all right. At the stretch turn the boy
let out a couple of links and the nag joined the front bunch. The boy
drew it fine, as I had instructed him, and won by a short head, and it
was funny to see the wise guys from Washington who had scattered all
kinds of Government-earned money all over the ring turning mental
flipflaps of despair. I watched to see if there’d be any holler about
anything when the boy weighed in, but there wasn’t, and the race was
confirmed all right. I went around and did my own collecting, and
several of the poor devils of bookies had to go out of business after
the rest of the boys that I had put on to the thing came along and
cashed their tickets. I found my yellow man waiting for me on the
outside of the ring, and when I got him into the shadow I gave up the
$2,500. I saw that he got a ticket and started for San Francisco the
next day. I felt so sad when I heard a few months later that in an
attempt to learn how to smoke hop out there, to add to his jag
répertoire, he had died in a Chinese joint after hitting up thirty-six
pills. I felt so sad."

The ex-ringer operator was plunged in meditation for a while, the others
remaining sympathetically silent, and then he resumed in another strain.

"Next to the worst jolt I ever got—and the worst was the time down in
Maryland when one of my plugs with two whitewashed barrel spots and a
whitewashed forehead star got rained on at the post, practically out of
a clear sky, and the spots got washed out, and I had to get out of the
State of Maryland over fences—next to that jolt, the way one of my boys
threw it into me at a county fair meeting in West Virginia was pretty
bad. I had tongue-hammered that kid pretty hard two or three times at
that meeting for winning when his mounts weren’t due to win and I didn’t
want ’em to win, and he got sulky. I tried to coddle him up a bit, for I
had a real good one to pull off on the last day of the fair, and I
thought I had him all right on my staff again. The real good thing was a
horse of mine that I had entered in the final race, which the jays down
there called a mile race for the 1:55 running class.’ 1:55! I had a
skate with me down there that could just common canter a mile in 1:45,
and he could have done it in three seconds better if pinched at any
time. I had had the plug lose three or four races during the fair
meeting, and he wasn’t as good as Chinese money in the estimation of the
West Virginians by the time the race that he was going to win came
around. My boy was to have the mount, and our mutual confidence seemed
to be restored by the time the good thing was booked to happen. But he
had an ice-pick up his sleeve for me all the time."

"’Didn’t try with the horse, and lost, eh?’ asked one of the ex-ringer
worker’s listeners.

"’Oh, no, it wasn’t that,’ was the reply. The horse won by a tongue, and
the boy gave him a beautiful tight ride to keep him from winning further
off. But he put every grafter that he knew, and he knew ’em all at the
fair meeting next to what was going to happen, and made split terms with
all of them. That is, he put ’em on, on condition that he was to get
half of each man’s winnings on the race. Now, I had figured on picking
up $8,000 or $10,000 easy on that good thing, and I had lain awake
nights making plans to meet possible hitches. It certainly wasn’t
treating me right, the way that boy did. I thought I’d get as good as 25
to 1, anyhow, at the first betting. I intended to take a mess o’ that
and then wait for the betting to go up, for I confidently expected, and
had a right to expect, that the nag’s price, in view of what the farmers
down there thought of him, would go up to 50 or 100.

"When the betting on the race opened I was on hand with my wad. Say, I
couldn’t get within twenty feet of a one of the twelve bookies doing
business. I never saw such a scramble, even in the 50-cent field at
Sheepshead. Of course, I thought they were all getting aboard of the
favorite, and so I drew back, knowing that if they were playing the
favorite my plug would be going up in price all the time. Then I noticed
a lot of the educated money, the coin of the grafters that I knew around
the grounds, going in, and I wondered if they were Rubes enough to play
a favorite in the last race on get-away day. So I drew close to the
bookies’ stands—as close as I could get—and then I found that they were
all writing my horse’s name. Nothing but my horse. Not a horse in the
race but my horse. It was a staggerer, that was. Of course, I thought of
my miffed jockey right away, and I knew he had done it. When I finally
was able to get up to the bookies, I found that my plug’s price had been
played down from 20 to 1 to 9 to 10 on, and I was so disgusted that I
stayed off altogether, although I knew my horse was going to win. He did
win. The boy couldn’t peach because his rake-down had been too big, but
he showed me $3,500 in bills an hour after the race, got off twenty feet
and told me all about it, and then bolted. I haven’t seen him since."




EXPERIENCES OF A VERDANT BOOKMAKER.


_Wherein It Is Shown That, When There Is "Something Doing," a Bank-roll
                       Is Liable to Be Wrecked._

"I heard somewhere the other day," said one of a party of turfmen who
were dining together after the McGovern-Erne fight, "that Billy
Thompson, the ex-Duke of Gloucester, is trying to cook up some scheme
whereby the legal authorities of New Jersey ’ll relent and permit him to
start the old Gloucester merry-go-round again. I don’t think he’ll make
it stick, if the story is true, but if Gloucester ever is started again
I know a man who’d be very liable to burn the barns down some dark
night. I don’t think he’d let the Gloucester mud-lark and snow bird
race-track operate while he lives.

"In 1880 this man I’m talking about—he had passed up a good grocery
business to play the races a year before—had nursed together a wad of
about six thousand dollars, and this gave him a bad case of the Sandow
vest. He was so chesty over having all that money that he concluded he’d
try a whirl on the block. There was only winter racing going on when he
got that smoky notion into his hat, and that was at Gloucester. As you
fellows know, they used to run ’em there in snow up to the saddle
pommels, and the plug that could make out the best without going over
the fence, or that didn’t become crazy from snow blindness, always
yanked down the money at Gloucester—that is, if he was meant to win.

"This ex-sugar-and-tea guy was a dead verdant one at the bookmaking game
when he went on the block at Gloucester, but he kept his ears open and
his mouth shut, and he had quite a streak of luck, besides, from the
go-off, so that at the end of his first week at laying odds he found
that he’d averaged a clean-up of about $200 a day. You couldn’t see him
then without sending up your card, he was so vast and heap-much. He was
thinking of going down Dixieway to make a bid on the Belle Meade farm,
and, by the end of his third week on the block, when he had run his
$6000 into a bit more than $10,000, he was probably the haughtiest
gazabo on this side of the Rocky Mountains.

"One day—it was at the beginning of his fourth week at bookmaking—a duck
who had a string of good ones—of their kind—chasing the Gloucester
will-o’-the-wisp for the poolroom purses, invited himself to take dinner
with the ex-grocer with the streak of luck. After they had stored the
feed away at the high-riding bookmaker’s Philadelphia hotel, the man
with the string leaned back in his chair and sprung what he had in mind.
He mentioned the star sprinter of his string.

"’You know, of course,’ said he confidentially, to the ex-grocer, ’that
that nag can eat up any horse down here at three-quarters of a mile.
He’d never be beaten at that distance if we let him out every time he
went to the post to race. But, of course, if I’d let him win every time
out, there would never be any price on him. He’d be a 1 to 20 shot every
time he got a lead-pad on, and I’m not going down the line on that kind
of prices. Neither am I running my string over at Gloucester for
hygienic reasons. Perceive?’

"The new bookie perceived.

"’Well,’ this oily geezer went on, ’that horse is entered in a
six-furlong sprint to-morrow, as you know. He’ll probably be an
even-money favorite. He’ll lose.’

"’He will, hey?’ said the new man on the block, suspicious like. ’That’s
darned good of you to tell me. But you’re not telling me that for your
health, either. He’s going to lose, eh?’

"’Yep, he’ll lose,’ repeated the smooth owner. ’Now, you’re a pretty
nice young fellow, ain’t you? I like you. Understand?’

"’Um,’ said the ex-grocer. ’What’s your graft, anyhow?’

"’Well, as I say, that skate of mine is going to lose,’ said the
confidential owner once more. ’Now, you see this thousand-dollar
William, don’t you? Well, I want you to take a thousand-dollars’ worth
of my horse to win for my account, see, when you make your book on that
race. He may be as good as 2 to 1, but he’s going to lose anyhow. You
see, I just want to pick up an honest dollar or so. You take this $1,000
of the suckers’ money for me on your book, and your reward ’ll be in
knowing what’s going to happen. You can hunch up the price, see? Is it a
go?’

"Now, this looked like a pretty good thing to the groceryman. It looked
like taking candy from a child. If that owner’s horse wasn’t going to
lose, it looked like a cinch that he wasn’t going to risk any
thousand-dollar bills on the game. So the new bookie told the owner that
he was on, took his $1,000, and figured on the pounding he was going to
give the talent the next day. He chuckled to himself when the other
books only laid even money against the sprinter when the betting on the
race began the next afternoon.

"’They wouldn’t do a thing but fall over themselves to lay a long price
if they knew, like I do, that the favorite is going to kerflop,’ mused
the ex-groceryman—he wailed me the whole spiel afterward—and he laid 2
to 1 against the sprinter’s chances on his slate. The other bookies over
his way looked as if they thought he was wheely, but he only exulted
whole lots inside of him.

"’You are wise people,’ he thought, ’but this is where I get the big end
of it.’

"Within three minutes after he had started his slate he had taken in the
horse owner’s $1,000 worth of his horse at 2 to 1. The handicappers just
battled to get at his book at their figures. Said he to himself, ’I’ll
just tap myself on this watermelon,’ and by the time the horses went to
the post he had taken in $5,000 of the public money at 2 to 1 on that
horse that was going to lose, and he knew that he’d be just $5,000 to
the good.

"Of course you chaps are next. When the horses got away the skate that
the ex-grocer had laid his whole $1,000 against walked in on the bit,
fifteen lengths to the good in a buck-jump. He was under twenty wraps
all the way from the flag-fall.

"The new bookie paid out his $10,000, bought a clay pipe and an
eight-cent package of punk tobacco, and went out of business, and he’s
been out of business ever since. It took him about a week to get
contiguous to the fact that the men who collected his $10,000 were the
smooth owner’s commissioners, but when he went gunning the owner had
removed his string from Gloucester, and was taking a little winter
cruise in a felucca in the Ægean Sea. But if Gloucester ever starts up
again, and there’s a conflagration, I’ll know how it started."

"There’s another chap that I know of who’s been smoking unfragrant
tobacco in a pipe for a good many years on account of an outlaw track
deal," said one of the other turfmen at the table, "but he wasn’t a new
man at the game. He was an old-timer—so much of an old-timer that it was
up to him to know that, once having made a tool of a man or a boy in the
racing business, it is never the part of wisdom to throw him overboard
on the presumption that he’s a dead one. Turf followers, as you fellows
all know, have a habit of resurrecting themselves at inopportune moments
when it seems that they are so deeply buried that they’ll never struggle
to the top of the ground again, and when they do run a shoe-tongue into
a tan-yard they are more than liable to get hunk with former pals who
have cast them aside in the hour of adversity. Now, it is a particularly
dangerous thing for any man connected with racing to do business with a
jockey. I never heard of a bit of jockey-tampering that didn’t get out
sooner or later, to the disadvantage of the man that did the corrupting.
I guess we all know of cases in which jockeys, after being ruled off for
crooked work, have become exacting pensioners on the hands of the men
responsible for their downfall for long stretches of years. The story I
have in mind is of a jockey who, while he wasn’t set down through
following the directions of the bookmaker he did business with, was
treated with characteristic meanness by the latter when he was up
against it owing to an accident; and the way this jock got even with his
former tamperer was unique.

"You all remember the boy Kelley? He wasn’t exactly a boy at the time
this thing happened—he was a man of twenty-two or so, which probably
accounted for the fact that when he was riding at Guttenberg he had most
of the other jockeys faded; give me a rider with a man’s hand on his
shoulders every time for my horse. Now, the morale of Guttenberg wasn’t
like unto that pervading a theological institution, but Kelley the jock
wasn’t any worse than his neighbors. He was like all the rest of the
people mixed up with the weird game at the Gut. It was a poor jock at
the Gut who didn’t have a bookmaker on his staff, and Kelley wasn’t a
poor jock by fifty good pounds under the saddle. It used to be an off
day with Kelley when he didn’t put up a ride in accordance with this
bookmaker’s orders. All of the jocks at the Gut did similar things, and
they were stood for. The hectic flush of humiliation didn’t mantle the
alabaster countenances of the Gut stewards to any huge extent when the 1
to 5 shot was beaten a furlong. Kelley was enabled to throw big money
into his bookie’s satchel, because, being such a top-notch rider of
outlaws, most of his mounts went to the post favorites; so that when he
snatched a horse it meant the good of the books, and of his bookmaker in
particular, for the latter would of course lay the longest price in
their judgment against one that he knew was going to run like a mackerel
along a dusty road. Kelley profited fairly well at the hands of this
bookmaker, and on his side he was absolutely loyal in his crookedness.
He invariably delivered the goods. He had the knack of making it appear
to the people with the field glasses that he was riding like a fiend,
when in reality he had his horse pulled double, and when he was
following orders he could permit the favorite under him to be beaten out
by a tongue on the wire in a way that would raise the hair of the folks
in the stand.

"Well, one day Kelley was dumped from a horse he was riding when the
track was slippery and broke his leg. He had been improvident and
extravagant, like most of the jocks of that day, so that when the
accident put him on the flat of his back he found himself broke. What
was more natural than that he should send to the bookmaker whose orders
he had been following for a long time for assistance? He wrote to the
bookie and asked for the loan of $100. The bookmaker ignored the
request. Then the laid-up jockey sent a friend to the bookmaker. The
latter made some remark about not coughing up for the oats and keep of
dead ones—figuring, you see, that Kelley’s injuries were such that he
wouldn’t be able to get back to the riding game until the close of the
meeting. So the jockey had to stave off doctors’ and other bills as best
he could, and I guess that he set his teeth down pretty hard and did
some robust thinking while his leg was healing.

"A couple of months after this accident Kelley, somewhat pale, turned up
in the paddock at the Gut one morning and announced that he was fit to
ride again. His services were immediately in demand, and Mike Daly got
him to ride his horse Gloster in the first race on the card. Gloster was
the best horse in the race and was certain to be favorite. The bookie,
who had used Kelley before his accident and afterward turned him down,
got to Kelley by the underground process, through an agent, with the
inquiry as to whether a little business couldn’t be done on Gloster.
Kelley, with all the good nature in life, sent word that there could,
certainly; that he could get Gloster beaten by an eyelash.

"The betting opened and Gloster was the favorite all over the ring at
odds of 1 to 2 on. Then Kelley’s bookmaker began to shoot the price
up—first to 3 to 5 on, then to 4 to 5 on, then to even money, and then
right up to 6 to 5 and even 7 to 5 against. The way that bookie hauled
in the money on Gloster was a caution. It seemed that every plunger and
casual bettor in the inclosure wanted a piece of Gloster at Kelley’s
bookmaker’s odds—all the rest of the pencillers still held Gloster at 1
to 2 on—and the bookmaker took in thousands of dollars on the horse.
When they were still whacking him with Gloster bets he became somewhat
nervous and sent his agent to Kelley again for reassurance. Kelley told
the agent again that Gloster wasn’t going to win.

"’He’s taking in billions on Gloster,’ said the agent to Kelley.

"’Let him handle the whole mint on the nag,’ replied Kelley. ’Gloster
will just about get the place—maybe.’

"In the meantime the judges, who occasionally made a bluff at getting
haughty and virtuous, got next to the big odds that one
bookmaker—Kelley’s bookmaker—was offering against Gloster, and,
naturally enough, they became suspicious. Five minutes before the horses
were due to go to the post, therefore, they called Kelley into the stand
and asked him squarely if there was anything doing by which Gloster was
going to get beat.

"’If Gloster doesn’t win this race,’ replied Kelley, ’you can rule me
off for life.’

"Kelley had put every man, woman, child and dog that he knew at the
track on to the fact that he was going to win by a Philadelphia block on
Gloster, and the bookmaker who had turned him down when he was on the
flat of his back with a broken stilt in the middle of winter got the
play of all of them. Dollar bets and $1,000 bets all looked alike to the
bookmaker. He took all the money that came along without rubbing. He
thought he had a corked-up good thing.

"When the bugle sounded and the horses emerged from the paddock, the
bookmaker, with his glasses in his hand, was leaning against the rail,
and he looked up with a grin to catch Kelley’s eye as the jockey rode by
on Gloster. He caught Kelley’s eye, but there was no responsive grin.
There was, instead, a dirty sneer on Kelley’s drawn, pale mug, and, as
he caught sight of the leering bookie he drew Gloster up for just an
instant and spat viciously in the direction of the man who had treated
him with such ingratitude.

"The bookmaker saw in that instant that he was ditched. His face went
white, and he clutched the rail, and he was still digging his
fingernails into the rail when, a few minutes later, the victorious
Gloster, who had won by about half a furlong, was led into the paddock,
with Kelley walking alongside of him. When that bookie got through
paying off the Gloster bets he had taken in he was out of business, and
when the story of how it all came about leaked out, there wasn’t a man
in the game that didn’t say that the bookie got all that was coming to
him."




THE MAN WHO KNEW ALL ABOUT TOUTS.


_And the Evaporation of His Resolution to Have Nothing to Do With Them._

"Touts," said Busyday, oracularly, to his companion on a train bound for
the Bay on Suburban day, "are the derned nuisances of the racing game.
You want to watch out for them. If by chance you should get separated
from me in the crowd, don’t you let any of the sharp-eyed, soft-voiced
ducks talk you into playing this or that one. Just you stick to those
selections I wrote out for you on that piece of paper. They’re the
logical winners. A friend of mine, whose brother is a bookmaker,
handicapped ’em for me, and I’m going to play every one of ’em myself.
That’s the only way to win; stick to your selections, and don’t let
yourself be touted. The man who listens to touts smokes a pipe.
Understand?"

"Uh, huh," replied Busyday’s friend, who was from Busyday’s native town
out West. He had never seen a horse race in his life, whereas Busyday
was an old-timer and learned at the game, having seen three Handicaps
and two Suburbans ran.

"They make kind of a lukewarm effort to keep the touts off the tracks,"
went on Busyday, disparagingly; "but the touts are too smooth for ’em,
and they’re always around, looking for good things like you, old man.
All you’ve got to do is just to flout ’em from the jump, as soon as they
edge up to you, and they’ll shoo-fly instantly, rather than take chances
on being spotted by the Pinkerton people. Tell ’em to go to the devil,
that’s all."

"Uh, huh," answered Busyday’s friend and guest, once more.

It came to pass that Busyday and his visiting townsman were separated
before they had got off the train. The car was jammed, and in the
confusion of getting off they made their exits by different doors.
Busyday frantically yelled out his friend’s name as soon as he found
himself alone on the platform, but, of course, he got no reply. His
friend was engulfed in the crowd.

"I s’pose I ought to have held hold of his hand, like a fellow does when
he takes his sister’s kids out for a walk," he reflected. "This is
blasted mean luck from the go-off. The touts’ll get hold of him now,
sure as shootin’, and they’ll strip him. Good thing he’s got his ticket
back to the little old slab of a town where we used to play shinny
together."

Busyday roamed around the grand-stand and the betting ring for ten
minutes before the slates went up for the first race, trying to catch
sight of his friend, but it was no use. His townsman wasn’t visible
anywhere. Then a sudden swirling and eddying in the betting ring told
him that the prices were up for the first race.

"I’ll have to pass the old boy up until I get this bet down," said
Busyday to himself, pulling out of his pocket the slip of paper that the
handicapper had given him the evening before. "Let’s see, what one of
’em have I got to win this? Oh, yes; Peaceful—good name, but it doesn’t
sound as if a horse with a name like that could run much. I’d rather
have a horse called Lightning Express, or Cyclone, or Helen Blazes, or
something like that, run for my money. S’pose, though, this handicapping
chap knows what he is doing, and so I’ll just put my first ten on
Peaceful to win. Hey? How’s that?"

There was a soft, persuasive buzz right in Busyday’s ear.

"D’ye notice all the suckers breakin’ their necks t’ land on that
Peaceful dead one?" were the words that formed the buzz.

Busyday jerked his head around suddenly, and he found within four inches
of his ear the countenance of a young-old man with red hair, a freckled
skin, and a pale-blue, shifty eye.

"Dead one?" echoed Busyday, the red-haired, young-old man smiling
amiably in his face.

"Libster," said he of the pale-blue, shifty eye, looking entirely
disinterested. "Out-and-out libster. Crab. Run about a dozen sprints,
and still a merry maiden. And look at the chancts th’ mutt’s had to win!
Leads th’ percession into th’ stretch every whirl, and then chucks it. A
proper dog, Cap. That’s on the dead. Worst quitter on th’ grounds."

"Um," said Busyday, stroking his chin and wondering why his handicapper
had picked Peaceful.

"I got th’ baby," buzzed the freckle-faced, young-old man, after a
silence.

"Hey?" asked Busyday.

"For a pipe," said the shifty-eyed one. "Say, I don’t git out o’ me
Waldorf bunk at 3 o’clock every mornin’ for me health."

"Is that so?" inquired Busyday, just for the sake of saying something.

"Not on yer dinner pail," said the aged youth with the shifty eye. "I
light out fer th’ tracks t’ watch ’em at their early mornin’ works. I’m
a railbird, all right, but I know where th’ dough is. I seen this baby
that I’m tellin’ you about do the five-eighths in a minute flat th’
other mornin’, an’ if he ain’t a moral fer this, here’s my lid an’ you
can eat it," whereupon the shifty-eyed one removed his 50-cent straw hat
and offered it to Busyday.

"What’s the name of this wonder?" inquired Busyday, trying to work up a
superior smile.

The aged youth bent over, placed his mouth within a quarter of an inch
of Busyday’s ear, and whispered:

"Stuart. He’ll walk."

"Oh, well, then, I’ll waste a ten-spot on Stuart," said Busyday, trying
to say it languidly, as if he didn’t take much stock in himself or
anybody else. Then he plunged into the vortex around one of the
bookmakers’ elevated chairs, got his feet trod upon, his hat jammed down
over his eyes, and his ribs treated to an all-hands elbow massage, and
finally succeeded in passing up his ten-dollar bill on Stuart to win.

"Stuart, thirty-five to ten," droned the bookmaker to the sheet-writer,
and then Busyday found himself beaten to the outskirts of the crowd.

"You on?" he heard in his ear, and, turning, he saw the freckle-faced
one smiling up at him.

"Yep—dropped ten on it," replied Busyday. "Kind o’ liked Stuart myself
when I saw him entered."

Then Busyday steered for the lawn to see the finish of the race. He was
trying to get some sense out of the list of owners’ colors on his
program, so as to be able to distinguish his horse as they raced under
the wire, when a calm man next to him, with a pair of field-glasses to
his eyes, mumbled:

"They’re off!"

There was a big shout all around.

"Lady Uncas out in front," said the calm man coolly. "She’ll curl up.
She seems to be staying, though, at that. Nope, she’s collared. Stuart’s
nailed her. He walks," and the calm man put down his glasses as the
horses galloped past the sixteenth pole.

Stuart came in all alone, and Peaceful was back in the ruck.

"I had my suspicions about that Stuart horse right along," said Busyday
to himself. He had never seen the horse’s name until the evening before.
"Don’t know why, but I kind o’ liked him. Probably because the Stuart
were a pretty swift bunch," and he chuckled to himself over his humor as
he made his way to the bookmaker’s line to cash.

"Somethin’ easy—like findin’ it, hey?" he heard buzzed into his ear as
soon as he put his foot into the betting ring, and there was the
old-faced young man, grinning complaisantly up at him.

Busyday handed to the shifty-eyed one, who stuck to him right up to the
paying-off line, buzzing learnedly all the time about the race just ran,
a $10 bill out of his $35 winning.

"Th’ next," said the red-haired wiseacre of the rail when Busyday had
fought himself away from the cashing crowd, "is what you might call a
one-hoss race. A one-hoss race, right."

"Lambent, of course?" said Busyday, looking at his piece of paper with
the selections on it. Lambent was his handicapper’s selection.

The freckle-faced screwed the whole left side of his face up into one
prodigious wink.

"Not this cage," said he. "Try the next. Lambent?" and he put one large,
white, freckled hand over his face, as if to hide his confusion, and
grinned through his fingers.

"Well, Lambent figures to win, doesn’t she?" asked Busyday weakly.

"Who, Lambent?" and the shifty-eyed smiled some more. "I’m goin’ t’
match her in a sweepstakes against me old aunt, and back me aunt off th’
boards fer a hog-killin’. There’s on’y one in this. Skinch. You can tap
on it."

"Which one?" asked Busyday in a wabbly tone.

Again the aged youth bent over until his mouth was within a quarter of
an inch of Busyday’s ear.

"Swiftmas," he replied. "Been saved up for a good thing, right. If he
don’t buck-jump in, here’s me lid," and once more he extended his
half-dollar straw hat for Busyday’s mastication.

"Well," said Busyday to himself between his teeth as he made his way
through the jostling crowd to one of the bookmakers’ stands, "I guess
I’m a weak and erring brother, all right, but danged if I don’t play
that redhead once more, anyhow," and he got $40 for his $20 on Swiftmas
to win. Swiftmas won by a head.

"They were too foxy t’ win too far off," Busyday was informed by means
of a buzz in his ear, by this time well known, as he was elbowing his
way again to the cashing line. "Boy drew it fine so’s not t’ spoil th’
price next time out."

The freckle-faced old youth got $15 out of Busyday’s $40 winning, and
then he looked Busyday over carefully and inquired:

"How about me?"

"You’ll do," replied Busyday, candidly. "Name the next."

"His Nibs, the Prince of Melbourne," whispered the freckle-faced, and
Busyday glanced at his handicapper’s selections. It was the Prince of
Melbourne there, too.

"He can’t lose," said the shifty-eyed. "Just a pleasant airing fer him.
Nothin’ to it. W’en you put yer coin down, you might as well stay right
here so’s t’ be foist in line. Put a bunch on."

"I’ve got some of their money," mused Busyday, "and I won’t pass it all
back to ’em in a lump."

He got $75 to $30 on Prince of Melbourne to win, bought three cigars for
a dollar and a pint of wine, and then suddenly wondered where his
townsman was.

"No use trying to look him up, though," he reflected, "in this jam of
Indians. Poor old chap, I s’pose he’s smashed flatter’n a pancake by
this time, without the price of a bottle of pop," and he reproached
himself a good deal for not having hung on to his guest when they left
the train. He was aroused from his reflections by the yowl, "They’re
off!" and by the time he got out to the lawn the horses were coming down
the stretch.

"His Princelets, with his mouth wide open," he heard the crowd yell, and
then his chest expanded, and he muttered to himself: "I always did have
a soft spot for that derned old plug!" For the moment he forgot that the
Prince of Melbourne happened to be a two-year-old.

"Oh, w’en I pick up a good one as I go along I like t’ put me fren’s
on," buzzed the freckle-faced in his ear, as he made for the paying-off
line. Notwithstanding the fact that the Prince of Melbourne’s name
appeared on his handicapper’s list of selections, Busyday very
cheerfully gave up one-third, or $25 of his winnings, on the
two-year-old to the red-haired youth. The latter soaked the bills away
in his white-and-brown-striped trousers, and then he remarked, in an
offhand sort of way:

"Well, this is where you pass me up, ain’d it, so?"

"Well," said Busyday, "I came down to play Banastar, and I think I’ll
have to stay with that hunch, if you’re agreeable."

"Cert’nly," said the shifty-eyed, with an expression more of sorrow than
of anger on his lined face. "Go ahead. Help yourself. Have all th’ fun
that’s comin’ t’ you."

"Why, what’s the matter?" inquired Busyday. "Ain’t Banastar the play?"

"And he looks like a duck with a purty good top-knot on him, at that,"
said the freckle-faced, dreamily, paying no attention to Busyday’s
question, and apparently addressing empty air.

"What’s the matter with Banastar?" repeated Busyday.

"I’m not queerin’ yer fun, Cap," went on the shifty-eyed. "You come down
wit’ th’ Banastar bug in yer nut, like all the rest, and I’m not
a-switchin’ you."

"Look a-here," said Busyday, "what the dickens are you giving us,
anyhow? Don’t you think Banastar’ll win the Suburban?"

"Cap," said the aged youth, spitting dryly and for the first time
looking Busyday squarely in the eye, "there’s a mare in this bunch
that’ll run things around all the Banastars from here to Hoboken an’
back. She kin fall down, an’ win. She kin take naps between poles an’
walk. She’s a piperino, if ever one was pushed up fer geezers to nibble
at. But I’m not a-switchin’ you, un’stand?"

"Mare, hey?" said Busyday, looking over his program. "You mean that
Imp?"

"Ain’t it?" said the freckle-faced. "Well, I guess yah. She win th’ last
time out with’ 126 up, eatin’ peanuts down th’ stretch, from a bunch
purty near as good as this. Banastar? Cap, I ain’t no hog, an’ you’ve
passed along what coin was a-comin’ to me. I’ll lay you 2 t’ 1 Banastar
won’t git one, two, t’ree."

"Dog-goned if I know what to do," mused Busyday. "Here I’ve been
shouting Banastar ever since the Handicap, and I promised my wife
faithfully that I’d play Banastar. Say," addressing the freckle-faced,
who stood by sorrowfully regarding him, "is this Imp fast enough, that’s
what I want to know? Won’t Banastar beat her on speed?"

The aged youth held up one thumb vertically and indicated with the
forefinger of his other hand.

"De Empire State Express," said he.

Then he held up his other thumb.

"Steam roller," said he. "Take yer pick."

Busyday made a sudden dive for a bookmaker’s line.

"Which I may remark, in strict confidence," he said to himself as he
tugged at his wad and counted out five twenty-dollar bills, "that there
may be softer marks between here and High Bridge than myself; but,
confound that freckle-faced tout’s red head, I’m just a-going to slide
along with him and play Imp at that, Banastar or no Banastar!" and ten
seconds later the bookmaker was taking Busyday’s five twenties and
droning out, "Six hundred to $100 on Imp to win."

Busyday was lighting the last of his three-for-fifty cigars over in a
corner of the betting ring when the well-known buzz reached his ears
again.

"On?" inquired the buzz. "Good and hard?"

"Yep," said Busyday. "Hundred."

Imp’s win is turf history. As Busyday handed the tout two crisp $100
bills the freckle-faced remarked:

"An’ you ain’t th’ on’y collect I make on this, Cap. I got a hayseed on
th’ mare fer $300, an’ I had him on all th’ rest o’ them good things, at
that."

"Well, so long, Red," said Busyday. "I’m getting back to town to dinner.
Next time I come down I’ll give you my trade if I see you around."

Then Busyday went up into the stand to take a final look around for his
townsman. He didn’t see him, and he started for the gate. Just as he got
outside the gate he saw his fellow townsman and guest stepping into a
hack. His fellow townsman and guest looked pretty jaunty, but Busyday
didn’t notice it.

"Hey, there, old man," he called after his friend, and the latter looked
around.

"Oh, here you are," said Busyday’s friend, with an expensive cigar stuck
at an angle of forty-five degrees in one corner of his mouth. "Trimmed?"

"Nope," said Busyday. "I landed on a few little good things that
occurred to me after I got to looking at the program, and I win ’bout a
thousand. Poor old jay, I suppose they put you out o’ business, eh?"

"Not by a long sight!" said his friend. "I ran into a freckle-faced,
red-headed duck as soon as I got in the grounds. I lost that piece o’
paper you gave me with the whadyoucallem—selections—on it, and so I
played what this red-headed chap told me to. Copped out ’bout $2800,
altogether. Had $300 on Imp to win the big race."

Then Busyday knew to whom the freckle-faced had referred when he spoke
of a hayseed.




A "COPPER-LINED CINCH" THAT DID GO THROUGH.


_Narrative of the Red-Haired, Freckle-Faced Tout Who Had a Good Thing up
                              His Sleeve._

When the first line of betting on the fifth race at Gravesend was
chalked up shortly after 4 o’clock in the Harlem street poolroom on
Wednesday afternoon last, the red-haired, freckle-faced tout gave one
swift glance at the figures, clutched his armful of "dope" books and
sped over to a corner of the room where two flashy, well-fed looking
chaps sat tilted back in chairs, smoking and unconcernedly waiting for
the running of a race at Latonia in which they had a good thing.

"Here’s the soft spot o’ your life," said the red-haired, freckle-faced
tout, pulling a chair up alongside the two unconcerned-looking chaps.
"This’ll be like pullin’ th’ milk teeth out o’ a fox terrier’s face.
This is a real dill pickle. Are you two comin’ out into th’ garden,
Maud, or are you goin’ t’ let this one get away from you."

"Back t’ your dray," said one of the unconcerned-looking chaps. "Another
stiff, hey? T’ your dray!"

The red-haired, freckle-faced tout pulled his chair closer to them.

"But this is th’ hand-made, copper-coiled mash," said he, earnestly.
"It’s on’y onct in a while that you get them people that lays th’
figures out o’ line like they are on this one. This is th’ mellow goods.
Just send a few aces along on it, that’s all. It’s 100 to 1."

"Now you stawp, Red!" said the other unconcerned-looking man. "You
stawp, you rude thing!"

"He’ll come home on th’ bit," said "Red." "Lemme show you where he’s
been landin’, an’ you can see if he’s any 100 t’ 1 toss. Lemme pass you
th’ line, an’ if you don’t take none o’ it, then I’m on a cattle boat by
way o’ Glasgow," and the red-haired, freckle-faced tout opened up one of
his dope books and started to show the pair of flashy looking chaps
where Rolling Boer had finished in his previous races.

"Go take a sail with yourself, Red," put in one of the easy-looking
chaps. "Nothin’ doin’. Rolling Boer, hey? Not with Fenian bonds, good
when Ireland’s free. Rolling Boer, you say, Red? When did they get that
one out o’ the cavalry? Rolling Boer, ’ll still be jogging down the
stretch when you’re in bed, Reddy. Say, it’s a wonder you don’t dig up a
live one ’casionally. Stop trekkin. Winter’ll be coming on soon, and
you’ll be nix the price of a doss. Rolling Boer! To the woods!"

The red-haired tout mopped his face with a frayed blue polka-dotted
handkerchief.

"Sey, what’s half a ten spot to you people?" he said in a tone of
entreaty. "The one you’re waitin’ f’r’ll be ’bout 1 to 4 on, an’ this is
sunshine money, at 100 to 1. You people know how they stan’ them 1 to 4
things on their heads out in Latonia. Say, take me spiel on this, won’t
you, f’r a fi’muth? Look where he got off th’ last time out, an’ where
he finished! If you can’t see him t’ win, take th’ 20 to 1 third. It’ll
be a shame t’ spen’ t’ money—but take it won’t you?"

The two complaisant-looking chaps turned away from the red-haired tout
and began a conversation between themselves. The tout looked very warm,
and an expression of despair crossed his weazened features. He mopped
his face again with his blue polka-dotted handkerchief and slunk away.
He sided up to one of the board-markers and said, out of the corner of
his mouth:

"Say, get an ace down on Rolling Boer f’r me, will you? It’s a skinch."

The board-marker grinned.

"I’m all out, Red," he replied. "Pushed me last ace up on the last
whizz, an’ didn’t get a whistle f’r it."

"This super’s good f’r a deuce in any hock shop—I’ve had it in f’r
three," went on the red-haired tout, appealingly, pulling out an old
silver time-piece and trying to pass it to the board-marker. "Lemme have
a buck on it, an’ I’ll pass you back five f’r it after th’ ring’s around
Rolling Boer. How’s that?"

"I’m all t’ th’ gruel, didn’t I tell you?" replied the man with the
chalk, with some asperity. "I got a ticker o’ me own. You’re puffin’
secon’s, Red. Rolling Boer couldn’t beat me little sister skippin’
rope."

The red-haired tout walked away with an expression of deep misery on his
face.

"They think they are wise t’ th’ ponies, hey?" he muttered. "It’s bean
bag they ought t’ be playin’!"

He dug a quarter, two dimes and a nickel out of his change pocket and
looked at the coins dismally.

"It’s me feed coin," he mumbled, "but maybe I can get some piker t’ go
along with f’r another four bits."

He walked over to a shabby-looking chap who was slouching around with
his hands in his pockets.

"Say, you got a bundle on you?" the red-haired tout inquired of the
shabby-looking man.

The shabby-looking man dug a fifty-cent piece out of his left-hand
waistcoat pocket.

"That’s all I was huntin’ f’r," said the tout, displaying his coins.
"Let’s put th’ two pieces t’gether an’ nail ’em f’r $50 each."

"On what?" inquired the shabby-looking man without any apparent interest
whatsoever.

"On a pipe," said the red-haired tout. "Rolling Boer. He’ll make ’em
dizzy and stroll in with his head a-swingin’ an’ his tail a-swishin’. Do
you come in with me f’r the half?"

The shabby-looking man put his fifty-cent piece back in his left-hand
waistcoat pocket.

"You’ll be fallin’ out o’ bed in a minute, Red," said the shabby-looking
man. "Not for me. I need the beers—ten of ’em."

"Yes, you’re a sport right, I think nix," said the red-haired tout,
walking gloomily away. "You’re a dead game, with the copper on."

His eagle eye caught sight of a fat man with some three parts of a jag
sitting at the "dope" table, alternately puffing at a ravelled cigar and
nodding sleepily. This jagged man had on one side of his head a straw
hat that looked as if it had been rained on and then sat on. The
red-haired tout went over to him.

"Say, your lid’s on the pork all right, ain’t it?" he said amiably to
the jagged man. "Been scrappin’ with a cable-car?"

"Fade away—fade away," said the jagged man, sleepily. "Do a disappearing
stunt."

"I’ll tell you what I’ll do with you," said the red-haired tout, edging
over confidentially to the jagged man. "I’ll pass you this cage o’
mine—on’y bought it three days ago, and coughed a two-spot f’r it—f’r
that one o’ yours an’ half a buck t’ boot," and the red-haired tout
removed the pretty fair-looking straw hat he was wearing and pushed it
over to the jagged man. The jagged man took his ravelled cigar from his
mouth and grinned broadly.

"Say," he said to the red-haired tout, "you gimme th’ tizzy-wizzy—hones’
yo do. Me wear a No. 2 lid? Say, do your fadin’ stunt—fade away."

The tout picked up his hat, put it on, and walked away.

"Now they’ve hammered Rolling Boer down to 80 to 1, hey?" he said,
looking up at the second line of betting. "B’jee, I’d climb a porch t’
yank out a couple t’ put on that one."

He was disconsolately biting his nails and looking around to see if
there was any way out for him before the bunch of two-year-olds at
Gravesend went to the post.

"They’re at the pump at Gravesend!" announced the board-marker.

Just as the announcement was made, a little man with a straw-colored
mustache and a red, white and blue band around his straw hat mounted the
stairs, passed the spotter sitting at the door with a nod, lit a fresh
cigarette, and walked up behind the red-haired tout.

"Thay, Red," he said, "what’th good in thith?"

The red-haired tout wheeled like a man who’s been touched on the
shoulder by a deputy sheriff.

"You haven’t got a minute!" he said, rapidly, to the little man with the
straw-colored mustache. "It’s th’ baby o’ th’ year! Gimme three aces—two
f’r you, an’ one f’r me, an’ in four minutes from date you’ll be lookin’
over th’ sides of a balloon, chucking off ballast made out o’ money."

The lisping little man with the straw-colored mustache smiled
indulgently and pulled out a roll, from which he stripped a five-dollar
note.

"That’th the thmalletht I’ve got, Red," he said, handing over the note
to the tout. "Thay"——

He chopped off the question, however, for the tout made two bounds for
the money-taker’s window.

"Three on Rolling Boer, T. L. M.!" he shouted, giving the initials of
the little man with the straw-colored mustache. "Th’ other two on th’
same, just plain R-e-d, Red, and both bets straight."

The man behind the desk grinned.

"High-ball mazuma for the house, Red," he said, twisting his mustache.
"That one ain’t got a look-in."

The tout was back at the side of the little man with the straw-colored
mustache who believed in him just as the operator sung out: "Off at
Gravesend!"

"Thay, Red," said the tout’s little man, "which one of 'em did you put
thothe five"——

"Rolling Boer at the quarter by a head!" sang out the operator.

"On that one!" said the red-haired tout, giving his thigh a whack with
his bundle of "dope" books. "It’s a pleasant outing for that one!
He’ll"——

"Rolling Boer in the stretch by a nose!" called out the operator.

"Thay, he’ll curl up, won’t he, Red?" said the little man at the tout’s
side, nervously. "Did you play him straight or one, two, three"——

"Rolling Boer wins by a nose!" shouted the operator.

It was a bit too much for the red-haired tout. He didn’t have any words
handy. So he slammed his "dope" books down on a chair, pitched forward,
turned a cart wheel, and then walked around the room on his hands with
his coat hanging over his head, and a grin of indescribable happiness
all over his freckled features. The little man with the straw-colored
mustache who had believed in Red followed the tout about the room.

"Thay, what do we win, Red?" he asked. "What prithe wath that horth?"

"You yank out $240, an’ mine’s $160," said the red-haired tout, getting
on his feet again.

"Thay, Red, you’re all right," said the red-haired tout’s benefactor,
pumping him by both hands.

The two flashy-looking chaps who had first been tackled by the tout on
the Rolling Boer proposition now walked up behind him with long faces.

"Say, Red, why didn’t you pitch that at us a little stronger, hey?"

"Get t’ell away from me, you pikers!" was the red-haired tout’s reply.




HE "COPPERED" HIS WIFE’S "HUNCHES."


     _Wherein It Is Shown That the Feminine Intuition Is Liable to
                       Occasionally Slip a Cog._

"Yes, siree," said the man with the ravelled cigar and the granulated
eyelids who swung precariously from a strap in a car of a returning
Sheepshead Bay train the other evening, "it certainly is funny about
these here hunches that women have, ain’t it?"

"No," said the two seated men he was addressing.

"Certainly is queer what freaky ideas they get into their heads," went
on the man with the ravelled cigar, ignoring the lack of encouragement
extended to him. "And when it comes to picking out good things on a
race-track, picking ’em out just on hunch, ain’t they wonders, hey?"

"Nope," said the two men at whom he was directing his conversation.

"It sure beats the Painted Post Silver Cornet Band how they can stick a
pin in a program with their eyes shut and light on a 100 to 1 shot that
wins a-blinking," continued the man with the granulated eyelids, tearing
two or three superfluous wrappers off his ravelled cigar. "Their system
beats the dope and the handicapping all to shucks, don’t it?"

"Nix," replied the two men in the seat.

"Never had such chance to size up the feminine hunch as I did out at
Morris Park ’bout six or seven years ago," went on the man with the
eccentric cigar. "Told my wife one night during the fall meeting at the
park that I was going to the races the next day, that a shoe clerk I
knew had told me about a good thing that was going to happen—he’d got it
from a trainer to whom he’d sold a pair of shoes—and I was going after
some of it.

"’Theophilus Nextdoor,’ says she to me, ’how dare you deliberately tell
me that you are going to gamble your money away, when I haven’t a rag to
my back and the coal not yet put in!’

"’Can’t help it, Clarissa,’ says I, ’I’ve just naturally got to invest
$50 on this good thing. I know it ain’t right, but I’ve got to do it,
anyhow.’

"Then she let out on me, and we both got mad. I tried to square it up
with her the next morning, and at the breakfast table I read her the
names of the horses that were going to run in the race in which I had
the good thing the shoe clerk had given me. When I came to the name of a
horse called Jodan, she dropped her coffee cup with a clatter and stared
at me.

"’Jodan,’ said she. Isn’t that short for Joseph Daniel?’

"’Yes’m, I guess so,’ I said, not knowing whether it was or not, but
anxious to stroke her the right way.

"’Is that the horse you are going to invest your money on?’ she asked
me, breathlessly.

"’No, it’s another one,’ said I.

"’Well, you might just as well stay home, then,’ said she, positively.
’You’ll lose your money. Jodan will win. I dreamt all night last night
of my Uncle Joseph Daniel McGeachy, who was lost at sea when I was a
little bit of a thing, and if Jodan is short for Joseph Daniel, as it
must be, then Jodan will win.’

"’But that’s plain superstition, and races ain’t won that way,’ I said
to her.

"’I don’t care one bit, so I don’t,’ she said to me. 'You will simply be
throwing your money away, and I need so many things, if you invest it on
any other horse than Jodan.’

"I tried to argue with her, but it was no go. She told me that her lost
Uncle Joseph Daniel McGeachy had once won a full-rigged ship race from
Shanghai to Boston, and was a pretty speedy old cuss in more ways than
one, and that any horse named after her Uncle Joseph Daniel McGeachy
couldn’t lose. I told her that, while I didn’t know anything about this
Jodan horse, I didn’t think he could beat the good thing my shoe-clerk
friend had given me, but she wouldn’t listen to me. The last thing she
said to me before I left the house was:

"’If you are determined to be a horrid, vulgar, disgraceful gambler, you
play Jodan. You’ll be sorry if you don’t.’

"Stubborn, when they get an idea into their heads, women, ain’t they?"

"No," said the two men in the seat near the strap-clutching man with the
ravelled cigar.

"Well, by jing, I got to thinking about my wife’s queer hunch on that
Jodan horse on my way out to the track, and the more I thought about it
the weaker I became on that good thing my shoe-clerk friend had given
me.

"’Women have got something away ahead of sense or reason,’ says I to
myself on the train on the way out, 'and I sure would feel almighty
cheap and no-account if my wife happened to be right about her Uncle
Joseph Daniel McGeachy and this Jodan horse. I sure would. I’ve got a
good mind to put a little money on that Jodan horse anyhow, derned if I
haven’t.’

"I was still undecided about it when I got out to the track. That’s the
edge the bookmakers have got, ain’t it—the people that have real good
things and then wabble when it comes to sticking to them?"

"Nope," said the two men in the seat.

"Well, sir, when the prices were marked up for that race in which I had
the good thing, blamed if Jodan wasn’t chalked up at 100 to 1. My good
thing horse was the second choice at 5 to 1. I stood there looking at
the prices, getting pulled around and butted into, and I had the
dingedest time making up my mind what I was going to do that you ever
heard of in your life.

"’If my wife’s hunch is right,’ I thought, ’and that Jodan horse wins at
100 to 1 without my playing him, I’ll never hear the last of it as
long’s I’m on top of the ground. She’ll be telling me morning, noon and
night, that she gave me a chance to win $5000, and that I didn’t have
enough gumption to take it. And if the good thing my shoe-clerk friend
gave me wins at 5 to 1, I’ll be sore on myself for throwing away a
chance to pick up $250 if I don’t play it.’

"I walked out onto the lawn so’s I could have more room to make up my
mind. Then I wheeled around suddenly and dived into the betting ring.

"’By cracky!’ says I to myself, ’I’m doing this little gamble myself,
and, feminine hunch or no hunch, I’m going to play that good thing my
shoe-clerk friend gave me, and nothing else.’

"So I went to the first bookmaker I saw and got a $250 to $50 ticket on
my good thing."

Here the man with the granulated lids sighed heavily and looked
genuinely distressed.

"Say, it’s the dickens, ain’t it," he said, after a pause, "how these
things happen?"

The two men in the seat to whom he had been addressing his conversation
exhibited a certain suppressed interest as to the outcome.

"Of course Jodan just walked in that day, at 100 to 1?" said one of them
finally, with a grin that clearly indicated his belief that he had the
result discounted.

The man with a ravelled cigar struck a match and lit the same for the
eighteenth time.

"Not on your zinc wedding did Jodan walk in!" he said, puffing away
without removing his eyes from the match. "My good thing spread-eagled
’em from the jump, and won, pulled up, by eight lengths. Jodan was last.
It sure is odd about these feminine hunches, ain’t it?"

"Blamed if it ain’t," said one of the men in the seat.

"I carried a twelve-pound lobster home to my wife that night and told
her it was a fair replica of her Uncle Joseph Daniel McGeachy horse, and
she told me that she just wouldn’t believe that Jodan hadn’t won until
she saw the paper the next morning, so there now! She caved, though,
when I uncovered the $250 and told her that she couldn’t get that
cerise-silk-lined tailor-made dress quick enough to suit me, and she
said that she might have known that no horse named after her Uncle
Joseph Daniel McGeachy, who didn’t have any more luck than to go and get
himself lost at sea, could win anything.

"Well, a month or so after that I went down to Washington on a little
matter of business, and took my wife along with me. There was horse
racing going on near Washington then, at a track called St. Asaph,
across the Potomac in Virginia.

"’Clarissa,’ said I to my wife one morning, after I’d got all through
with my business in Washington and was ready to come back to New York,
’I think we’d better stay over to-day and go to the races at St. Asaph.
A man that I met in the shooting gallery down the street gave me a good
thing last night, and I think I ought to see to it. It’s going to come
off to-day.’

"Of course she told me again that I was going to rack and ruin, and
never would make anything of myself, but I told her that I just
naturally had to go over to St. Asaph that day and play Jodan.

"’Jodan!’ she almost screamed at me. ’Theophilus Nextdoor, how can you
have the hardihood to stand there and tell me that you are going to
waste your money on that horrid beast, when both of us are absolutely in
need of new fall outfits?’

"I told her that I’d see to the fall outfits, but that I sure couldn’t
get away from that Jodan good thing.

"’Why,’ I said, don’t you remember how wild you were about this same
Jodan horse only a little more than a month ago?’

"’I just don’t care one bit if I was,’ she replied. ’I know and you know
that any horse named after my Uncle Joseph Daniel McGeachy, who didn’t
have any more luck than to go and get himself lost at sea, cannot win,
and I should think you would be ashamed of yourself to stand there and
tell me to my face,’ etc., etc.

"Well, she wouldn’t go along with me to the track over at St. Asaph
across the Potomac, and so I went alone. The man I had met in the
shooting gallery had told me so earnestly about this Jodan horse that I
couldn’t fail to be impressed by his words, and when I found that my
wife was so opposed to Jodan’s chances was more than ever determined to
play him, for I’d learned something about the nature of the feminine
hunch, don’t you see?

"It like to’ve carried me off my feet when I saw the price on the
blackboards against Jodan. Jodan was quoted at 150 to 1. The favorite
was at 3 to 5 on, and all of ’em, the whole fourteen in the race, were
at shorter prices than Jodan. I clutched the $50 that I had intended
playing on Jodan, thinking that he’d be about 10 to 1 or something like
that, and I just thought and thought and thought over the thing.

"’By jimminy!’ said I finally, after standing over in a corner alone for
a while, thinking, ’my wife may be right about Jodan, and all that, but
I came over here to play Jodan, and I’m going to play him or just bust,
win or lose!’

"Then I went over to a bookmaker, got a $1500 to $10 ticket on Jodan to
win. ’Take that hay out of your hair, pal,’ the bookmaker said to me
when I passed my money over—and went up to the stand to see the race,
thinking all the time what a serious matter it is to take a chance on
playing against the feminine hunch.

"Jodan, after being practically left at the post, came out of the clouds
in the stretch, and won the derned old race on the wire by a nose from
the favorite, and when I hired a rig and packed those $1500 over to my
wife the way she warmed up to her one and only Theophilus was sure a
caution.

"The feminine hunch," concluded the man with the ravelled cigar and the
granulated eyelids, "is all right when you copper it, but it won’t do to
play it open. Am I right?"

"No," said the two men in the seat, and then the rush to get off the
train began.




A RACE HORSE THAT PAID A CHURCH DEBT.


_He Was Thought to Be a No-Account Cripple, but He Proved Himself to Be
                     "All Horse" When Called Upon._

"A friend of mine who came here from Chicago for the Bennings meeting
was telling me about that Jim McCleevy mule," said an old-time owner of
thoroughbreds who is wintering a string of jumpers and breaking a bunch
of yearlings out at the Bennings track. "That makes a queer story, and
there are some strange things connected with the thoroughbred game, at
that. This McCleevy horse wasn’t worth a bag of moist peanuts at the
beginning of the present racing season. He couldn’t beat a fat man. He
had never been in the money. He was a legitimate thousand-to-one shot in
any company. He was the candidate for the shafts of a brick cart, when
by some odd chance he passed into the possession of a nice young woman
who was going to school somewhere in the State of Iowa. The girl’s uncle
was mixed up some way or another with the turf, and he bought the
McCleevy plug for a joke, paying a few dollars for him. In a spirit of
fun he wrote to his niece that he had bought Jim McCleevy in her name,
and that the horse belonged to her and would be run in her interest. The
young woman didn’t know the difference between a race-horse and a
chatelaine bag. She was an orphan, and struggling to get an education
for herself. Her ambition was to take a course at a woman’s college,
but, up to the time of this incident, which lasted throughout the spring
and summer, her hope of putting this ambition over the plate was pretty
shadowy, and it looked like it was up to her to get a job teaching a
country school in order to support herself. But she wrote to her uncle
that she accepted the gift of the no-account racer with gratitude, and
inquired if the horse could not trot right fast, for, if so, she might
be able to dispose of him to some well-to-do farmer in her neighborhood.

"Jim McCleevy was attached to the string of a good trainer, who saw at
once that the horse had been underestimated, that he had been badly
handled, and that it would be worth the effort to try to make something
of him. He spent two or three weeks monkeying with the skate and fixing
him up, and then he sent him out one morning with a lummux of a stable
boy on his back and put the watch on him. Jim McCleevy breezed a mile in
1:44, fighting for his head at the finish, and two days later he was
slapped into a selling race at a mile and a sixteenth, with light
weight, a bum apprentice lad up, and all kinds of a price, for there
were some good ones in the race, which was at the Harlem track, in
Chicago. The girl’s uncle scattered a few dollars around the ring on the
mutt, all three ways, and McCleevy came home on the bit. That was the
beginning of McCleevy. He was put into a couple of races a week at a
mile and more, at the Harlem and Hawthorne tracks, during the entire
racing season at Chicago, and he won race after race, no matter how they
piled the weight penalties up on him. When he didn’t win he broke into
the money, and as there was always a good price on him, seeing that
almost every time he raced he was pitted against horses that seemed to
outclass him, the uncle of the girl who owned him got some of the money
every time. He parleyed the money that he won for his niece on Jim
McCleevy’s first race, and he got it back and a bunch besides every
time. The fame of Jim McCleevy spread around Chicago, and a Chicago
newspaper man went down to Iowa to interview the young woman who owned
the horse. She told him, artlessly, that while she abhorred
gambling—well, she certainly did enjoy the prospect of being enabled to
complete her education. Her uncle deposited between $8000 and $9000 in
her name, the amount he had won for her in purses and bets on Jim
McCleevy, at the wind-up of the racing season, and the horse, which
developed quite a bit of real class, still belongs to her.

"Odd, isn’t it, that an underestimated race-horse should hop out and not
only give a nice girl that had never so much as has stroked his sleek
neck a chance to fulfil her ambition for an education, but win her a
start in life that’ll probably make her one of the eligible girls in the
State of Iowa? But I recall a queerer one than that—how a cast-off crab
suddenly developed into a race-horse and paid off a mortgage on a
church.

"That happened out at Latonia four years ago. I was racing a few of my
own out there at the time, and saw the affair from the beginning to the
wind-up. I’ll have to duck giving the names, for the good man who
profited by the sudden development of the nag he accidentally became
possessed of is still the pastor of a flock that congregates in a pretty
little debt-free, brick and stone Roman Catholic church on the outskirts
of Cincinnati.

"There was an old trainer hanging around the Latonia barns at that time
who was in hard luck from a whole lot of different points of view. I’d
known him on the metropolitan tracks years before, and he had been, in
his day of prosperity, a good fellow and a horse-wise man, if ever one
chewed a straw. When his health went back on him, however, six or seven
years ago, and he couldn’t personally attend to his work—he ran an open
training stable—it was all off with him. The strings that he had been
handling were taken away from him by the owners and put in other hands,
and he went up against the day of adversity with a rattle. He had a few
horses of his own, but these proved worthless, and most of them were
finally taken away from him to pay feed bills. On top of it all he
developed locomotor ataxia, and when I got out to the Latonia barns,
four years ago, he could barely move around. How he contrived to exist I
don’t know, but I guess the boys chipped in a dollar or so every once in
a while for the old man. The only horse that he had left when I reached
Latonia with my little bunch was an old six-year-old gelding that was a
joke. Well, call him Caspar. The mention of Caspar’s name made even the
stable-boy grin. Caspar looked a good deal like Diggs, that camel horse
that’s pulling down the purses now in New Orleans. He was all out of
shape, with a pair of knees on him each as big as your hat; of all the
bunged up, soured, chalky old skates that ever I looked over, this
Caspar gelding was the limit. Yet he had been a pretty good two-year-old
and a more than fair three-year-old. He had won four races as a
two-year-old, and six as a three-year-old, but he was campaigned and
drummed a heap, and when the old man shot him as a four-year-old Caspar
could just walk, and that’s all. He was a cripple from every point of
the compass. He was chronically sour and sore, and he was as vicious and
ugly as the devil, into the bargain. He never got anywhere near the
money as a four and five-year-old, and he hadn’t been raced at all as a
six-year-old, when I first clapped an eye on his rheumatic old shape.
But the old man was a sentimentalist in his way, and he couldn’t stand
the idea of selling a horse that he had taken care of as a baby to some
truck driver to be overworked and abused. So he hung on to Caspar, fed
him, nursed him and took care of him generally, just as if the old plug
was making good for all of this attention. Caspar was a standing gag
around the Latonia stables.

"’Wait’ll I joggle Caspar under the string by four lengths in the
Kentucky Derby!’ a monkey-faced apprentice jockey would say solemnly to
the other kids, and then they’d all holler.

"Well, about a month after I struck Latonia—it was then getting on
toward midsummer—the old trainer in hard luck who owned Caspar took to
his bunk, not to get up any more. He only lasted two weeks. Two days
before he died he sent for an old Irish priest that he had known for a
number of years. The priest was the pastor of that little brick and
stone church on the outskirts of Cincinnati that I spoke about. The old
trainer had been a good Catholic all his life, and he received the last
offices of his faith. Then he said to the priest:

"’Father, there’s a crabbed, battered-up old dog of mine over at Latonia
that I’ll make you a present of. He’s worth about one dollar and eighty
cents, but he was a good racing tool when he was young, and I’ve never
felt like turning him loose to hustle for himself. He’s crippled up
some, but you might get him broken to harness, so that he could haul
your buggy around. I wish you’d take him and see that he doesn’t get the
worst of it. Caspar was pretty good to me a few times when I was up
against it.’

"When the old man turns up his toes and dies the kindly priest came over
to the barns to see if he could get any assistance in the way of putting
our old hard-luck pal under the ground. He got it, of course, and enough
for a tombstone besides. While he was at the stables the father thought
he might as well have a look at the piece of horse-flesh that had been
presented to him by the old man. So one of the trainers escorted him to
Caspar’s stall.

"’Could he ever be made any good for driving purposes?’ the priest asked
the trainer, who smiled.

"’He’d kick a piano-mover’s truck into matchwood the first clatter out
of the box,’ replied the trainer.

"’I’ll just let him stay over here for awhile until I decide what to do
with him,’ said the priest, and he went back to Cincinnati and buried
the old trainer.

"Well, a couple of mornings later a fresh stable-boy who had just got a
job in one of the barns put a bridle and saddle on old Caspar and took
him for a breeze around the course just for fun. It was just at dawn,
and a lot of us trainers were watching the early morning work of the
horses. It struck me when Caspar passed by the rail where I was standing
that the old devil looked mighty skittish, and was doing a lot of
prancing for a hammered-to-death skate, with bum knees and all sorts of
other complaints. About a minute later there was a yawp all along the
rail.

"’Get next to that old Caspar!’ a lot of the trainers shouted. I looked
over toward the back-stretch, and there was the old skate with his head
down, eating up the ground like a race-horse. We all jerked out our
watches just as he flashed by the five-furlong pole and put them on him.
It was amazing to see the old mutt make the turn and come a-tearing down
the stretch. If he didn’t do that five furlongs in 1:02, darn me. All of
our watches told the same story, and there was no mistake about it. When
he passed the judges’ stand Caspar wanted to go right ahead and work
himself out, but we all hollered at the boy to pull him up. The kid
stopped the old gelding with difficulty. Caspar wanted to run, and he
had a mouth on him as hard as nails.

"We got together and talked about Caspar. We were dumbfounded, and
didn’t know what to make of that exhibition of speed. Then a trainer who
was, and still is, noted throughout the country as the most skilful
horse-patcher that ever got into the game spoke up.

"’The old devil’s just come back to himself, that’s all there is about
it,’ he said. ’There are a lot of sprints in his old carcass yet. All he
needs is some patching. If he’ll run like this work he’s just done in
five-furlong dashes, there’s a chance for a slaughter with him. I’m
going to ask the father to let me handle him and see if he can’t be
oiled up.’

"The trainer went over to Cincinnati that same morning and saw the
priest.

"’Father,’ said he, ’I don’t want to get a man of your cloth mixed up
with the racing game, but I think I can do something with that old
racing tool, the old man bequeathed to you.’ Then he told the priest
about Caspar’s phenomenal work that morning.

"’Bless me!’ said the good man, ’I fear it would not be seemly for me
to’——

"’Oh, that end of it’ll be all right, father,’ said the trainer. ’If I
find I can do anything with the old rogue I’ll shoot him into a dash
under my own colors, and you won’t be entangled with the thing a little
bit. It won’t cost you anything to let me try him out, and if I find
that he’ll do I’ll get my end of it by putting down—er—uh—well. I won’t
lose anything anyhow.’

"Well, when he left the kindly man of the cloth he had the permission to
see what could be done with old Caspar. "’Let me know how you progress,’
the priest had asked him.

"The trainer seeing a chance to make a killing—and we all vowed
ourselves to secrecy about the matter—went to old Caspar. He was a
nag-patcher, as I say, from the foot-hills, and the way he applied
himself to the reduction of Caspar’s inflammations, and to the tonicking
up in general of the old beast, was a caution to grasshoppers. And it
came about that early morning’s work of Caspar’s that had surprised us
so was no flash in the pan at all. The old ’possum had somehow or
another recovered his speed all of a sudden, in addition to a
willingness to run, in spite of his infirmities. At the end of two weeks
Caspar, as fine a bit of patched-work as you ever saw, was ready. The
trainer went over to Cincinnati and told the father so.

"’Well,’ inquired the priest.

"’He’s going to run in a five-furlong dash day after to-morrow,’ said
the trainer. ’And he’ll walk. It is a copper-riveted cinch—er-uh—I mean,
that is, Caspar will win, you see. It’ll be write your own ticket, too.
Any price. In fact when the gang sees his name among the entries,
they’ll think it’s a joke.’

"’My son,’ said the father, with a certain twinkle lurking in the corner
of his eye, ’gaming is a demoralizing passion. Nevertheless, if this
animal, that came into my possession by such odd chance, possesses
sufficient speed to—er’——

"’Oh, that’s all right, father,’ said the trainer and he bolted for it.

"As the trainer had said to the priest, there was an all-around chuckle
the following afternoon when the entry sheets were distributed and it
was seen that Caspar was in the five-furlong dash the next day. For a
wonder, not a word had got out about the patching job that had been in
progress on the old horse, nor about his remarkable work. The stable
lads and railbirds who were on kept their heads closed and saved their
nickels for the day of Caspar’s victory.

"Well, to curl this up some, the field that we confidently expected
Caspar to beat was made up of nine rattling good sprinters—one of them
was so good that his price opened and closed at 4 to 5 on. Caspar was
the rank outsider at 150 to 1. We all got on at that figure, the bookies
giving us the laugh at first, and only a few of them wise enough to rub
when they suspected that there was something doing. The trainers’,
railbirds’, and stable-boys’ money that went in forced the old skate’s
price down to 75 to 1 at post time. A number of us took small chunks of
100 to 1 in the poolrooms in Cincinnati—wired our commissions over. The
old horse favored his left forefoot a trifle in walking around to the
starting pole, and that worried us a bit, for he’d been all right on his
pin the night before. We didn’t do any hedging, however, but stood by to
see what was going to happen. All of us, of course, had enough down on
him to finish third to pull us out in case he couldn’t get the big end
of the money.

"It was a romp for Caspar. If I’d tell you the real name of the horse
you’d remember the race well. Caspar, with a perfect incompetent of a
jockey on his back, jumped off in the lead, and was never headed,
winning, pulled double and to a walk, by three lengths. The bookies made
all colors of a howl over it, but their howls didn’t go. They had to
cough. It was the biggest killing that bunch of Latonia trainers,
including myself, had ever made, and there wasn’t a stable boy on the
grounds that didn’t have money to cremate for months afterward.

"After the race the trainer who had patched old Caspar up for the
hogslaughtering—he was close on to $15,000 to the good, and he didn’t
have me skinned any, at that—hustled over to the priest’s house.

"’Father, the plug made monkeys of ’em,’ is the way he announced
Caspar’s victory.

"’Truly?’ said the priest.

"’Monkeys,’ repeated the trainer, and then he pulled out a huge new
wallet that he had bought on the way to the priest’s residence. He
handed the wallet to the father. 'When I was here, a couple o’ days
ago,’ said the trainer, looking interestedly out of the window, ’I had
along with me a fifty-dollar bill that, feeling pretty prosperous that
morning, I intended to hand to you to be distributed among the poor of
the parish—used to be an acolyte and serve mass myself, a good many
years ago, when I was a kid. Well, I forgot to pass you the fifty, you
see, and so I invested it in—er-uh—a little matter of speculation, to
your account, so that it amounts to—er-uh—well, I understood there’s a
bit of a mortgage on your church, you know."

"The priest opened the wallet and counted out seven one thousands, one
five hundred and one fifty-dollar bill. The trainer had put the $50 down
on Caspar for the priest—without the father’s sanction or countenance,
of course—at 150 to 1.

"’Well,’ went on the trainer, anxious to talk so as to save any
questions as to the nature of his speculation, ’it certainly would have
done your heart good if you could have seen that old nag cantering down
the stretch’——

"’It did,’ said the father, with a smile. ’It is no sin, I conceive, for
even a man of my cloth to watch noble beasts battling for the supremacy,
there being, I take it, nothing cruel in such contests. I saw the race.’

"Old Caspar was wound up by that race. He went to the paddock as sore as
a boil, all of his old infirmities breaking out with renewed strength,
and he was turned out to grass and died comfortably two years ago. If he
could have known, it might have cheered his declining days to realize
that he had paid off the mortgage on a nice little brick and stone
edifice of worship on the outskirts of Cincinnati."




A SEEDY SPORT’S STRING OF HORSES.


  _How the Incredulity of a Lot of Bookmakers Was Turned Into Gasping
                             Astonishment._

A mixed party of turf followers in Washington for the Bennings meeting,
and Washington men about town, had a café talk the other night about
some things that have happened in former years on running tracks,
legitimate and outlaw, in this neighborhood.

"When the outlaw track over at Alexander Island, across the Potomac, was
running a few years back," said a New York player, "I came down here
from the wind-up meeting in New York one fall to see if there was
anything in the game in these parts. Then, as now, I was playing, and
not laying. So this Alexander Island happening that I’m going to tell
you about didn’t bother me any, bad as it knocked a lot of the books.

"I got here before the Alexander meeting began. A couple of days before
the game was to be on, while I was in the Pennsylvania avenue
refreshment headquarters of the boys who came here from New York and
other tracks to write the tickets, a seedy-looking chap, who looked as
if the elements had conspired to make him smoke a bum pipe in the game
of life for a long time previously, walked in and edged around to the
back room where the bookies were figuring on the amount of fresh money
they were about to begin taking out of the national capital. The
tough-looking man had a horsey look and a horsey smell about him, and as
soon as I saw him I knew that he followed 'em in some kind of a
hanger-on capacity. He walked over to a table where a number of the
bookmakers were seated.

"’Say,’ said he, leaning his hands on the table and addressing the party
in general, ’you people are sports, ain’t you?’

"The looks the bookies gave the shabby-looking man were intended to
convey to him the idea that they weren’t publicly posing as hot tamales,
anyhow. The man got no reply.

"’You’re going to make books across the way, ain’t you?’ the
up-against-it-looking chap asked, with an inquiring look all around.

"’Well, what if we are?’ asked one of the bookies, just for the
good-natured sake of breaking the silence.

"’Well,’ said the down-at-the-heel sport, ’I’ve got a couple o’ nags
that have been running for the past six weeks over at the Maryland
outlaw. They haven’t been one, two, six in any race over there, and I’ve
gone broke paying entrance fees for ’em. Maybe they’ll be able to do
better over across the way at Alexander. I want to chuck ’em in a couple
over there, anyhow, for luck. But I owe $30 feed bill to the Maryland
outlaw people, and I can’t get my plugs away from there until the
thirty’s paid. Now, you people are sports, and so’m I. What I want to
know is, will you people cough up the thirty for me as a loan, so’s I
can get that pair o’ mine down here?’

"The bookies listened to the man with gradually increasing smiles, and
when he finished they gave him the laugh in chorus.

"’Stop your kidding,’ said one of them. ’I can get all the outlaw
racehorses I want for $2 a head.’

"They all chipped in with a crack at the doleful-looking sport, who
appeared to be rather a guileless sort of chap for a man with a short
stable of racers.

"’They’re a good pair, all right, and one of ’em’s on edge, too,’ he
persisted. ’He worked six furlongs in 1:21 flat a couple of days ago.’

"The bookies all looked at the man as if he were demented.

"’One twenty-one flat for a six-furlong route!’ exclaimed one of them.
’Why, look here, my friend, you’re not smoking hard enough to suppose
you can win down here with a skate that does well when he works six
furlongs in that time, are you? Don’t you know that there’s a whole
bunch over there now that can go that route in 1:16 or better?’

"’Well, they’ve got a chance, anyhow,’ said the shabby man. ’Do I get
the $30 to get ’em out o’ hock?’

"The bookies all turned their faces the other way, then, and when the
man with the pair of hocked nags saw that it wasn’t any use he dug his
hands into his pockets disconsolately and shambled out.

"On the day that the meeting opened I saw the shabby man in the betting
ring. I was behind him when he handed one of the bookies a $5 bet on one
of the horses entered in the second race of the day. The bookmaker had
belonged to the party that gave the laugh to the shabby man when he
asked for the $30.

"’Playing ’em, eh’ said the bookie, smiling at the run-down-looking man.
’Couldn’t get your pair away from the Maryland outlaw, I suppose.’

"’Yes, I dug up and got ’em out,’ said the man. 'They’re here now. The
one you just gave me a ticket on at $100 to $5 belongs to me.’

"’Oh, is that so?’ asked the bookmaker. ’Well, I hope you win. But
you’ve got a couple of 3 to 5 shots to beat, you know.’

"’I got a chance,’ was all the man said, walking away.

"I took a look at his horse, the rank outsider in the race, when he went
to the post with the others. He was a six-year-old gelding, and he
looked rank and broken down. A boy that the shabby man had brought along
from the Maryland outlaw was on the horse. It was a mile race, and the
horse was twelfth in a field of twelve. I saw the gloomy-looking, shabby
man in the paddock after the race superintending the rubbing down of his
nag. He seemed to be a whole lot in the dumps.

"The same horse was entered in the fourth race on the next day’s card.
It was a field of crack outlaw performers, and his horse was again the
extreme outsider at 40 to 1. I saw the shabby man walk around putting
down $2 bets here and there on his plug, and I felt sorry for him. The
bookies simply smiled commiseratingly at him. The hard-looking man’s
horse finished ninth in a field of nine.

"’Why don’t you cut it out?’ asked one of the bookmakers of the man with
the tough appearance. ’You’re wasting your stake.’

"’I got a chance,’ was the reply.

"The man got out his other horse on the following day. He got 50 to 1 on
him for the six-furlong race, and his plug, another rank and no-account
looker, finished last. This was the horse that could work six furlongs
in 1:21. The seedy man’s confidence in his pair of skates seemed rather
pathetic to me.

"After each of his horses had been in about half a dozen races each,
always finishing last, the both of them, and the seedy man putting twos
and fives down on them right along until the bookies felt like not
taking his money, I thought he’d take a tumble and quit the game. But on
the eleventh day of the meeting his ’mile racer,’ the six-year-old
gelding, was entered again. He went to the post with a field composed of
the cracks among the outlaws. I happened to be close to the seedy man
when he went around according to his custom, putting down small bets on
his horse. He seemed to be rather better fixed than usual that day, for
he had quite a bundle of fives with him.

"’What do I get on my horse?’ he asked the first bookie he struck.

"The layer grinned, for he knew there were eight or ten good ones in the
race, three or four of them quoted around even money.

"’I’ve got 75 to 1 hung up about him, and all you want of it,’ said the
bookie. ’You can write your own ticket, in fact.’

"’Hundred to 1?’ asked the seedy man.

"’Why, sure,’ replied the bookmaker. And he took $5 of the ’owner’s’
money at 100 to 1. Just out of curiosity I followed the seedy man in his
tour of the books and I saw him put down $70 in $5 bets on his horse to
win at 100 to 1. It struck me then that there was to be something done
on the seedy man’s horse. But I wasn’t capping the bookies’ game, and
I’ve got a fad for minding my own business, anyhow, and so I kept off
the race and went into the stand to watch it. I had a hunch to play the
seedy man’s horse for a good wad, but I reflected that if I got on and
the good thing went through the bookies ’ud be suspicious about such a
well-known player as I was being in on it, and in the investigation the
seedy man might be cut out, and I didn’t want to knock him. But I surely
was a whole lot interested in the way that race was to come out.

"I took a good look at the seedy man’s horse as they filed past the
stand to the post. He looked much better and pretty nippy at that for
such a rancid outsider. The same boy that had ridden the horse in his
first race at Alexander Island and landed him nowhere was up. It was a
mile race.

"The favorite, a horse called Walcott—4 to 5 on in the betting—got off
on the right foot with a jump and started to tiptoe the field. At the
quarter he led by three lengths, with the second choice, a good outlaw
named Halcyon, beginning to set sail for him. The rest of the field of
thirteen were all strung out, the seedy man’s horse ’way in the ruck.
But I kept my glasses on that horse all the way, and I could see that at
the half he was under the devil’s own pull. The boy had half a dozen
wraps on him and I felt then, even if the favorite was still a good four
lengths in the lead, and going easily, that there was but one horse in
the race, and that horse the seedy man’s. It was a watermelon just
opening, but I suppose I was the only man at the track that happened to
have got next to the game. The judges didn’t observe, of course, that
the seedy owner’s horse was under twenty wraps, for they looked upon him
as a dead one and paid no attention to his running.

"At the far turn Walcott, the favorite, was still three or four lengths
in front, Halcyon, the No. 2 choice, having fallen back, beaten out.
They were all in a bunch behind the leader, and all going mighty well at
the head of the stretch. All the time I had my glass focused on the
horse belonging to the shabby man. Walcott seemed to be just galloping,
as I say, at the head of the stretch, when I saw the jockey suddenly sit
down on the shabby man’s horse and start to ride a-horseback. It was
pretty, I tell you, to see that old six-year-old hop out after the
galloping favorite and chase him down the stretch. The old horse,
without a bit of whipping or spurring—the boy had simply given him his
head—pumped up like an express engine, and the favorite was taken out of
his gallop and extended, under whip and spur, before they were half way
down the stretch. Passing the stand, Walcott and the seedy man’s horse
were nose and nose, the latter gaining at every jump. Walcott was beaten
a head on the wire by the rank outsider in a pretty finish.

"The stewards had the seedy man in the stand immediately and then called
the boy up. It was an astonishing reversal of form, and action seemed to
be called for. The seedy man’s story was straight, however. He had given
his horse a half pint of whisky before the race and he supposed that was
responsible for the win. Doping horses was all right at Alexander, and
so the stewards couldn’t kick about that. The stewards touched upon the
ringer question, but the seedy man was such a simple kind of duck, and
his story was so connected about past owners of his two horses and their
life-long careers on the outlaw tracks, that the stewards finally
declared the race all hunk and the bets stood.

"I saw the shabby man cash his $70 worth of 100 to 1 tickets. He didn’t
gloat any over the bookies who had grinned in his teeth before the
race—just collected his money quietly, saying: ’Well, I had a chance,
didn’t I?’ The bookies were confident that the seedy man had a mighty
valuable pair of ringers on his staff, and that one of them had just won
the mile race in the beautiful, finely-drawn nose finish, but they
couldn’t welch on their bets. With his $7000 the seedy man took his
string of two away the next day.

"I ran across him last summer at the St. Louis Fair Grounds’ racing. He
was no longer a seedy man. He was covered with gig lamps, and he had it
in every pocket. Said I to him:

"’D’ye remember that neat 100 to I thing you pulled off in Washington a
few years ago? There was some quality in that old outlaw of yours that
got the money.’

"He looked at me with a broad grin.

"’Outlaw be damned,’ said he. ’That horse was one of the cracks out of
the West, on licensed tracks. He was a bit of paint. He had done a mile
in 1:39-1/2 twice—round miles—and he was as game as a wild turkey egg.
Me and my pardner pulled down $20,000 or so, running him as a ringer all
over the country. I was going to open my six-furlonger in Washington
that time, but $7000 was enough. My six-furlonger was a crack from
Frisco. He was dyed, too. Six furlongs in 1:14 was a common canter for
him. The Willie Wises back in the East are not so many at that, are
they?’"




THIS TELEGRAM WAS SIGNED JUST "BUB."


 _It Referred to Nothing Calculated to Disturb Domesticity, but It Came
                      Near Wrecking a Happy Home._

When the senior partner of a young two-handed firm of patent attorneys
reached the firm’s office in West Broadway on Monday morning last his
eye caught sight of a telegram addressed to his junior partner on the
latter’s desk. As the junior partner was in Washington and wasn’t due
back in New York until 4 or 5 o’clock in the afternoon, the senior
partner opened the telegram. It was a night message from St. Louis, and
it read as follows:

"Hammer Jim Conway. Punch him your limit. Don’t let anything scare you
out. He’s easy. Bub."

The senior partner scratched his head over this.

"Conway—Jim Conway," he muttered to himself. "Now, who the dickens can
Jim Conway be, I’d like to know? We’ve got no client named Jim Conway,
and we’re not fighting any infringement case in which a Mr. Conway is
the defendant. Darned funny telegram, this is."

The senior partner turned the message upside down and every which way,
but the longer he looked at it from various points of view the more
puzzled he became.

"Mighty belligerent sort of an affair, too," he mused. "Now, what has
this Jim Conway done to my partner that he needs to be punched for it?
And who’s this Bub? Bub! That’s a deuce of an undignified name for a man
to put on paper. Great Scott! I wonder if my junior partner has gone in
for prize fighting at that Jersey athletic club he belongs to? Perhaps
he’s been matched to box some fellow member named Jim Conway, and this
Bub chap down at St. Louis is wiring him encouragement. Nope, that can’t
be right, either. My junior partner has been taking on fat at an
alarming rate lately, so that he can’t be training for a boxing
contest."

He took a few turns up and down the office, holding the telegram out at
arm’s length.

"I hope the boy don’t get into a serious mix-up with this Jim Conway
fellow, whoever he is," he muttered nervously. "I don’t believe the lad
has done anything that he’d be ashamed to have me know about, and yet
it’s blamed queer that he should be getting telegraphic despatches from
people by the name of Bub, urging him to employ physical force for the
subjugation of a chap with such a Boweryesque sort of name as Jim
Conway. The question is, what’s the boy done to Conway, or Conway to
him, that it should be necessary for one or both of them to resort to
fisticuffs? Now, if the boy were to get mixed up in a brawl with this
Conway there’d be the deuce to pay. It ’ud get into the papers, and it
might have a serious effect upon our tidy and growing practice. I wish
that junior partner of mine were a bit more level-headed. He’s too
clever and industrious and promising to have anything whatsoever to do
with folks who travel under such names as Conway and Bub, and I’m going
to give him a mild little personally conducted talking to when he gets
back from Washington this afternoon. Why, I wouldn’t have him get into a
street fight, or a fight anywhere else for that matter, for big
money—not only for the sake of the firm, but for his own sake. He’s
pretty handy with his maulies, and all that, but this fighting business
is not the thing for gentlemen, not by a long shot. I just wish I could
find out who this Conway duffer is, anyhow."

The young woman who manipulates the typewriter for the firm came in just
then.

"By the way, Miss Bringlunch," the senior partner said to her, "have we
any person of the name of Jim Conway on our list of correspondents?"

"No, sir," she promptly replied. "We’ve got a Conners, Coleman, Coulter,
Conneff, Curran—lots and lots of C’s—but no Conway."

"So I thought," said the senior partner. "Er—by the way, did you ever
happen to hear Mr. Barlock refer to a person by the name of—er—Bub?"

The young woman smiled as she tied her black sateen apron in the back.

"I’ve heard him call the newsboys who come into the office with papers
Bub," she replied.

"Er—yes, yes," murmured the senior partner, "so have I. But this is a
St. Louis Bub. Well, no matter."

The senior partner dived into the mass of papers on his desk, but he
couldn’t get the bloodthirsty telegram to his junior partner out of his
mind. He was puzzling over it still radiant when his junior partner’s
young wife came along toward 11 o’clock in the morning. She wanted to
find out the exact hour her husband was due back from Washington.

"He’ll be here a little after 4, I guess," said the senior partner.
"Er—by the way, Mrs. Barlock, does Jack number among his friends or
acquaintances anybody by the name of Jim Conway?"

"Jim Conway?" repeated the junior partner’s wife, with a finger at her
lip. "Why, no, not that I know of. I never heard him say anything about
a Mr. Conway. Why?"

"Oh, nothing," said the senior partner, in a constrained sort of tone,
putting away the message from St. Louis for the fiftieth time.

The wife of the junior partner suddenly looked alarmed.

"That telegram!" she gasped, noticing the senior partner’s furtive
manner of slipping the despatch into his pocket—"is anything wrong with
Jack? Has the train been wrecked? Has the"——

And she started to her feet in great agitation.

"Calm yourself, calm yourself," said the senior partner, also rising and
smiling reassuringly. "There’s nothing the matter. Train wrecked? Why,
the idea! How did you ever get such a notion"——

"But that telegram that you handle so mysteriously," said the junior
partner’s wife, not yet over her alarm.

"What telegram—this?" said the senior partner, taking the night message
from St. Louis from his pocket. "Why, this is an ordinary—er—business
telegram addressed to Jack from St. Louis, and it’s"——

"Let me see it, please, if it’s for Jack," said the junior partner’s
wife, holding out her neatly gloved hand, and the senior partner could
do nothing else but pass it over.

"’Hammer—Jim—Conway. Punch—him—your—limit.
Don’t—let—anything—scare—you—out. He’s easy. _Bub_.’" the junior
partner’s wife read, slowly and distinctly, her eyes widening at each
sentence. "This, then, is the Mr. Conway that you spoke of. Mr. Topknot,
what is the meaning of this? What in the world is the"——

"You can search me," said the senior partner desperately. "Er—that is,
it’s all as mysterious to me as it apparently is to you. I’ve been
bothering my head about it all the morning. I wouldn’t have worried you
by showing it to you, but as long as you asked to see it, why, of
course"——

And the senior partner coughed behind his hand and looked dismal.

The junior partner’s wife paced up and down the office with the telegram
in her hand.

"Why, it looks as if Jack had an enemy named Jim Conway, and that he
intended to fight him, doesn’t it?" she exclaimed beseechingly to the
senior partner. "I’d just like to know who this horrid, nasty ruffian
who signs himself Bub is, that’s all. My Jack fighting a man with such
an awful, ’longshoremanish name as Jim Conway! Why, that name sounds
like the names of the roustabouts we read of in the papers who attack
their poor wives with cotton hooks and throw burning lamps at them. And
goodness gracious sakes alive! the very idea of Jack Barlock ever
dreaming of lowering himself by getting into difficulties with such—oh,
I don’t know what to think of it all; indeed I don’t!"

And she strode up and down the office again in great agitation.

"Now, now, now," put in the senior partner comfortingly. "We don’t know
anything about the contents of the message, and it may be that this Mr.
Conway is—er—why, the fact is, come to think of it, it may be a message
in code. Jack’s got a code of his own, you know, and maybe he"——

The wife of the junior partner was looking at him so suspiciously,
however, that he couldn’t go on. An expression just a trifle harder than
was exactly becoming gradually stole into her face, and she walked over
close to where the senior partner sat in his revolving chair.

"Ah," she said in a hard tone, "I begin to see. You are trying to cover
up something—you men always stick together in these affairs. It may be
that this Mr. Conway is married, and that Jack—great heavens! if I only
thought it! If I even dreamed that such a thing could be—after all the
sacrifices I’ve made for Jack—living away from mama all this time—and"——

Then she reduced her handkerchief to a wad about half an inch in
diameter and began to dab at the corners of her eyes.

"My dear girl," said the senior partner, "I give you my solemn word that
I know no more about that message, nor about Mr. Conway, than you do. I
never heard of Mr. Conway in my life before I opened that telegram. My
dear Mrs. Barlock, I am sure you are exaggerating the importance of this
despatch. There is no reasonable ground whatsoever upon which you can
base any—er—accusation against the boy, and, as I say, it is possible—in
fact, it’s more than probable—that this message is in Jack’s private
code, and that"——

"I—don’t—believe—any—such—boo-hoo"——And the lovely young matron began to
rock herself to and fro and to dab at her eyes unremittingly. "It’s just
as plain as day that Jack has done some wrong to this poor Mr. Conway,
and this friend of Jack’s in St. Louis, named Bub, has heard that Mr.
Conway is looking for Jack, and he has sent him this telegram to warn
him to be on his guard—and—boo-hoo—who would ever dream that my Jack
would get himself involved in such an awful"——

Her feelings overcame her again at this point, and she was unable to
proceed.

"Mrs. Barlock," said her husband’s senior partner, severely, rising and
confronting her, "I am surprised at you—I am, indeed. I was certainly of
the opinion that in a matter of this sort you would at least give your
husband—a most considerate husband—the benefit of the doubt; that you
would at any rate give him an opportunity to explain himself. How do we
know what he is to Conway or Conway to him?" And the senior partner,
growing eloquent, declaimed as if he were speaking of Hecuba instead of
the mysterious Conway. "Is it not more than likely that you are doing
him a grievous wrong by even so much as imagining for a moment that this
extraordinary telegraphic communication from—er—this Bub—person has any
reference whatsoever to—er—uh—domestic or family affairs? Wait until
Jack returns, my dear Mrs. Barlock, and I’ve not the least doubt that he
will explain everything to your entire satisfaction, and"——

"Oh, yes, explanations—explanations!" exclaimed the junior partner’s
wife, giving her eyes a final dab and rising. "You’ll telegraph him on
the train to have some sort of an explanation ready, and then he’ll come
in here with a deeply aggrieved countenance—just as if he had had no
part at all in endeavoring to break up this poor Mr. Conway’s home and
tell me hypocritically that I’ve wronged him and all that. I know you
horrid men and the way you stand by each other through thick and thin,
no matter how wicked you know each other to be. I shall be back here at
4 o’clock, when Jack is due, Mr. Topknot, and notwithstanding the way he
is treating me, if there is any possible way I can prevent him from
meeting this Mr. Conway and having a disgraceful altercation with him, I
shall do it. And I promise you that I shall be able to detect very
easily whether he is telling me the truth or not when I demand him to
explain this terrible business."

Saying which, the junior partner’s wife pulled her veil down and swept
out of the office with the general air of a deceived wife in a play.

"Huh! it’d naturally be thought I’d know enough not to make such an
egregious ass of myself as to show her that telegram!" growled the
senior partner to himself. "There’ll be all kinds of a bobbery around
here this afternoon, I suppose, and if this Conway matter proves to be
something that Barlock wouldn’t want his wife to know about—and I’ve no
doubt now that it will prove just that way, the young idiot!—why, he’ll
be sulky with me, and there’ll be little or no work done on those new
cases, and—oh, it’s a devil of a mess all around, that’s what it is!"

For all of which, however, the senior partner had his work to do, and he
pitched in and was up to his ears in it until about half-past 3, when
the junior partner’s wife, with tightly pursed lips and an air of
ominous calm, arrived at the office with her mother, a handsome,
haughty, uncompromising-looking woman with a great mass of white
pompadour hair and an expression of unyielding austerity. The junior
partner’s wife and her mother replied to the senior partner’s courteous
greetings with unusual stiffness, plainly indicating their joint belief
that he was in league with the absent junior partner in his nefarious
doings, or that he was at any rate attempting to shield the young man.

"Shall I turn on the electric fan, madam?" the senior partner politely
asked the junior partner’s wife’s mother.

"I am quite cool enough, thank you," said the junior partner’s wife’s
mother, snappily.

"Shall I fetch you a glass of iced water?" he asked the junior partner’s
wife.

"You are very kind, but I am not in the least thirsty," she replied in a
tone which seemed to convey the idea as plainly as words that she feared
he might put something in the water that wouldn’t do her any good.

The senior partner turned to his work. Thus the three sat in unbroken
silence for fully fifteen minutes, when the sound of a blustery,
cheerful voice was heard in the office boy’s anteroom, and a few seconds
later a tall, broad-shouldered, frank-faced young man entered the
office. When he saw his wife he made for her with both arms extended.

"Why, hello, there, Patsy!" he said. "I didn’t know you’d be waiting for
me, or I’d have come a-running—why, what’s the matter here, anyhow?"

The junior partner’s wife had shaken herself loose and averted her face
when her husband had attempted to fold her in his arms. He stared at her
for a moment, and then he stared at his mother-in-law.

"What’s up, mom?" he asked his wife’s mother. "What have I been and gone
and done now, I’d like to know? Did I leave the water running in the
bathroom before starting for Washington, or have you lost my bull-pup
again, that you all look so queer—or what the deuce is it all about?"

Neither of the women vouchsafed him any reply, and he turned to his
senior partner.

"I say, Topknot, look here; are you in on this?" he said to his senior
partner, who was twiddling his thumbs and looking very much confused.
"Did I rob a bank in my sleep last week, or have the papers come out and
accused me of being a member of the Ice Trust, or"——

"My boy," the senior partner interrupted, judiciously rising and taking
the mysterious telegram from the inside pocket of his frock coat, "the
telegraphic message which I have in my hand, and which, I regret to say,
I opened this morning, knowing that you would not be back in New York
until late in the afternoon, has been the occasion, owing to its
somewhat mysterious contents, of the seeming"——

"Let’s see it, Topknot," said the junior partner, reaching for the
telegram.

He spread it out and glanced over its two lines. By the time he got
through reading it he was in a frenzy of excitement. He jerked his watch
out and looked at it.

"I’ve just got time," he muttered to himself, hastily. "I’ll just about
be able to make it. Patsy, you stay here with your mother until I get
back. I’ll be back in twenty minutes or half an hour. Tell you all about
it when I get back," and he was out of the office door and down the
steps like a boy breaking out of a little red schoolhouse for recess.

A vacant cab happened to be passing just as he got outside, and he
hailed the driver and darted into the vehicle.

"Drive like the devil to ——’s!" he shouted to the driver, and in
something under three minutes he had rushed into the upstairs poolroom
about four blocks from his office.

The second line of betting was in on the second race at St. Louis, and
the horse Jim Conway was the rank outsider at 60 to 1. The junior
partner crowded his way up to the counter and laid down a ten-dollar
note.

"Gimme Jim Conway," he said to the man behind the counter.

"Conway, $600 to $10," said the money taker, and he had no sooner
finished the words than the instrument began to click.

"They’re off at St. Loo!" sang out the operator. "Rushfields in the
lead, Cathedral second." Pause. "Cathedral at the quarter by two
lengths, Rushfields second." Pause. "Cathedral at the half by three
lengths, Rushfields second." Pause. "Cathedral at the three-quarters by
a length, Rushfields second." Pause. "Cathedral in the stretch by a
neck, Rushfields second by a neck." Longer pause. "Jim Conway wins,
easy, by three lengths!"

"Whoopee-wow!" The yell went up from the long-shot players in the room
who had taken a chance on Jim Conway.

The junior partner stood around with a broad grin on his face while he
waited for the race to be confirmed. Then he collected, bounded
downstairs, hailed another cab, and in exactly seventeen minutes from
the time he had left his office he was back there again. He was greeted
with the same frigidity as characterized his original welcome. He still
wore his broad grin, and he walked over to his desk, raised the lid, and
began to dig into his pockets. He produced first one fat roll of bills
and then another, and he slammed each roll down on his desk as if it
were so much shavings. His wife and his wife’s mother and his senior
partner watched his performance with open mouths, as did the office boy
who stood in the doorway. When the junior partner had made a pyramid of
bills on his desk about as big as a fair-sized derby hat, he turned to
his wife and asked her, still grinning:

"Did you read this telegram, my dear?" holding the message out in his
hand.

"I certainly did," she replied, "and you would oblige me greatly if you
would"——

"And who do you think this Jim Conway was, Patsy?" he interrupted.

"I hadn’t the least idea in life," she replied, without any sign of
relenting, "nor have I at the present moment. I intend, however, to find
out who Mr. Conway is at the earliest possible mo"——

The junior partner fell into a revolving chair, stuck his legs out in
front of him as far as they would reach, and roared so that he must have
been heard all over the building. He roared so loud and long that the
performance was infectious, and his wife and his wife’s mother and his
senior partner, notwithstanding the fact had begun to dawn upon them
that they were in a foolish position, had to smile in spite of
themselves. When the junior partner was able to splutter he managed to
gasp his explanation in short sentences. Bub was a friend of his in St.
Louis who followed the races out there, and who had promised to tip him
off on the first good thing at a long price that was to be put over the
plate at the St. Louis meeting. Bub had kept his promise, and the junior
partner was $600 to the good. That was all.

"And if you don’t go out and corner the foulard dress goods market
to-morrow, Patsy," the junior partner concluded, addressing his wife,
"on the strength of what our four-footed pal, Jim Conway, has done for
us, why"——

When they had gone, the office boy, in sweeping out the office, picked
up the telegram, that had slipped to the floor while the junior partner
was laughing.

"Now, w’y couldn’t I ha’ got a piece o’ dat!" said the office boy,
disgustedly as he read the telegram. "I bin pickin’ dat skate ev’ry day
f’r de las’ two weeks, and I knowed dis mornin’ w’en I seen de St. Loo
entries dat he’d win in buck-jump."




STORY OF A FAMOUS PAT HAND.


_A Game in New Orleans That Makes Modern "Big" Poker Games Seem Tiny by
                              Comparison._

"The shrinkage in the value of poker winnings that get talked about
nowadays," said the New Orleans turfman at the beach dinner, "is
mournful, that’s what it is. A few days ago a man told me that
So-and-so, a gilded youth from up the State somewhere, had recently
swooped down upon a gentleman’s poker club in New York, and had removed
himself from the scene of play, after a five-hour séance, with $8500 in
winnings. The man who told me this leaned back, after he had sprung the
$8500 climax, and waited for my eyes to protrude. He looked a bit miffed
and sulky when they didn’t protrude.

"’Why, durn it all,’ said he, ’I believe you affect your cold-blooded
way of taking things. To see you twiddle your thumbs a man ’ud suppose
that you had no more sense than to imagine that an $8500 winning at a
short poker sitting was the most ordinary thing in the’——

"’Easy, easy,’ I had to put in, for he was heating himself unduly. Then,
to bring him around to good nature again and to convince him that I
wasn’t attitudinizing, I was compelled to spend a half hour or so in
unwinding a bit of a reel of the days when there were poker giants in
this country. He wasn’t quite willing, at the finish, to acknowledge
that the winner at draw of $8500 was a poker pigmy, but when I happened
to mention the occasion when Phil Cuthbert of St. James’s parish
dropped, in a two-handed game at the St. Charles Hotel in New Orleans, a
little bundle of $400,000"——

"He told you, of course, that you were smoking," interrupted the New
York man.

"No, he didn’t. He asked me if it got into the New Orleans papers. I
told him that in 1868 the New Orleans papers were too busy roasting the
carpet-baggers to devote any space to such a minor matter as a $400,000
poker game at the St. Charles Hotel, where draw games approximating that
in size were generally going on at any old hour of the day or night.
There was some rhetoric, I admit, in that ’approximating’ statement, but
I wanted to set this New York man right. As a matter of fact, a $50,000
game of draw was not at all uncommon in the St. Charles’s private poker
parlors. After Phil Cuthbert had dropped that mound of $400,000 on one
hand, the New Orleans papers did announce that Mr. Philip Cuthbert, the
well-known planter of St. James’s parish, was about to start on a
gold-prospecting tour in the mountains of Honduras; but they were
generous enough not to mention, if they knew it, that, with four aces in
his hand, he had lost $400,000 to Mr. Joseph Lescolette, shipper, of
Havre, Pernambuco, and New Orleans."

"Lost $400,000 on a hand consisting of four aces, am I to understand you
said?" asked the New York man.

"The statement was to that general effect," replied the New Orleans
turfman.

"Suppose you just lead up to that gradually by telling the story."

"Well, in order to do that, I’ve got to plead guilty to having been a
table arranger and sweep-out boy at the St. Charles at the time the
thing happened," said the horseman from New Orleans. "However, having
achieved greatness since, I see no reason why I shouldn’t be willing to
acknowledge that. Besides being table arranger and sweep-out boy, it was
one of the functions of my job at the St. Charles to sort o’ stand by,
as sailor-men say, when games were on in the private parlors, and run
errands for the gentlemen playing. There was plenty of high poker play
to be had at any of the first-rate New Orleans clubs at that time—too
much of it, in fact, for the club games became so open, owing to the too
generous distribution of visitors’ cards by the club members that many
of the high-playing men of the town abandoned club poker playing
altogether. When they felt the hunch to get into a game of draw they
adjourned to the St. Charles, where, in the seclusion of a private
parlor, they enjoyed freedom from the neck-craning gaze of onlookers,
and freedom also from that bane of the genuine lover of a game of draw,
the chap who stands behind one’s chair and keeps up a running commentary
of approval or disapproval.

"Phil Cuthbert was a raiser of perique tobacco up in St. James’s parish,
and he had besides several thousand acres in cotton. His father, who
died before the war was well under way, was supposed to be worth from
$2,000,000 to $3,000,000, and it all went to his only son, Phil. At the
close of the war the estate had dwindled to some $800,000, and Phil
started in to flatten it out still more. It was the talk of Louisiana
that he had taken a $250,000 crimp in the estate within two years after
he had entered upon it, and it had nearly all gone at cards. He wasn’t a
dissipated man at all, but he just naturally couldn’t help but play
poker, and he belonged to a family of losers at poker. Before this big
game that I’m going to tell you about wound him up I’d frequently seen
him win as much as $25,000 in a single night’s play at the St. Charles.
Instead, though, of making a run for it for his St. James’s plantation
when he made a winning like this, he’d be back again with a party of
more or less solvent friends the very next night, and his winnings and
an amount equal thereto that was not velvet, but hard, soil-wrung cash,
would float out of his keeping into the hands of his friends. Wherefore,
to insert a tiny bit of moralizing on the side, I want to say that your
greatest gambler is not the man who possesses the greatest amount of
skill in manipulating the cards, dice or wheel, but the man who knows to
a T when the psychological moment arrives for him to quit, winner or
loser.

"Joe Lescolette—called Joe familiarly because he was under 40, a rounder
of French nativity who loved Americans and their nicknames and
diminutives of good fellowship—was probably the richest of the New
Orleans fruit importers at that time. His father before him had had a
line of South American and West Indian sailing packets hauling fruit
into New Orleans for the American market, and Joe came into the whole
business at the old gentleman’s death. To go a little ahead of the
story, Joe went to France at the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War in
1870, entered the French Army, and was killed at Gravelotte. He wasn’t a
hectic flush gambler during the few years that he kept his name pretty
constantly in the mouths of New Orleans folks on account of his
extravagances, but he was a scientific master of the game of American
draw, all the same, and, by the same token, as nervy a little man in a
game of cards, or in any other affair of life, for the matter of that,
as ever came out of Gaul. He was the original subsidizer of the French
opera in New Orleans, by the way, and it was at a performance of ’Aida’
that Joe met Phil Cuthbert on the night Phil struck the poker snag that
wrecked his estate. The two men were friends of some years’ standing,
members of the same clubs, and they had had various business dealings
with each other besides. On the night of the ’Aida’ performance Cuthbert
had just struck town from his St. James plantation and he had the poker
light in his eye. Cuthbert met Joe Lescolette in the smoking-room of the
opera house during the final intermission and slipped his arm through
Lescolette’s and said:

"’Joe, I desire to accumulate, accrue and win a very large portion of
your currency, even unto half of your kingdom, this night. There is too
much conversation in a game of four. Suppose, then, when the dying
strains of _Rhadames_ are only echoes and this act is finished we slit
each other’s weazens, pokerishly speaking, over at the hotel.’

"Well, when they came I was the buttons in charge of the parlor they
selected for play. Much as they desired solitude, they couldn’t achieve
it. About half a dozen of their friends traipsed along with them, and
took one of the tables in the same parlor and went at a dinky game of
$20 limit.

"I piled a couple of dozen of decks of cards within easy reach of
Cuthbert and the Frenchman, and, after they had each taken two brandies
and sodas apiece, talking the while of everything else on earth besides
poker, they began to play. Both of them had their check-books beside
them on the table, and the bank was to keep itself, as the saying goes.
There was to be no limit. New Orleans men who, in those days, were poker
players of the old time sort, didn’t ever play with a limit. None of
them ever took advantage of this unwritten clause of the game to raise
an opponent a million of dollars or so, and therefore out, but they
played according to their means, and if any of them was raised a bit too
strong by a confident opponent he only had to let out a word to have the
raise reduced. I don’t suppose more absolutely on-the-level poker was
ever played in this country than the game as enjoyed by men of wealth in
New Orleans after the close of the war.

"The white chips in this game between Lescolette and Cuthbert were worth
$10, the reds $25, the blues $50, and the yellows $100. This was double
the usual value of the chips even in big games at the St. Charles, and I
could see that both men were out for it—in a perfectly friendly and
cordial way, of course, but out for it nevertheless. Lescolette was a
scientific, cool, all-around, percentage player of poker. He had made a
study of the game just as he had made a study of the fruit trade, and he
had very little of the mercurial disposition of his race. Withal, he was
a generous man in the game, and never took advantage of an opponent’s
overgrown confidence. Cuthbert was an uneven player, not a cool-headed
man at all. He had no license to play cards for big stakes under any
circumstances. In the first place, he drank too much over the game, and,
in the second place, he tried to play poker by intuition instead of by
mathematical calculation and the study of the other fellow’s forehead.
He knew poker thoroughly, of course, and he had flashes of genius at it,
but in general, as I look back to his work now, I’d call his poker
ragged, uneven, and unproductive.

"For all that, Cuthbert had Lescolette’s checks to the aggregate of
nearly $13,000 after a couple of hours’ play. The friends of the two men
at the other table knocked off to watch the play at the two-handed
table. Lescolette, while he showed no nervousness, indicated by a
somewhat deepened earnestness of manner that he didn’t relish being
$13,000 or anything like it in the hole. After he had dashed off the
check that put him that amount out, he sent me to the café for a lunch,
and the two men and their friends spent an hour or so over the salads
and wines.

"’We’ll resume, then?’ said Lescolette, and they began play again. It
was about 1 o’clock in the morning. Cuthbert had taken three pints of
wine to wash down his luncheon, and then a rather heavy swig of cognac.
When they resumed there was too much color in his cheeks for a
successful poker player. Lescolette had drunk only Apollinaris.

"Cuthbert split open a new deck when play was resumed, and riffled them
rather uncertainly.

"’Damn a new deck of machine-burnished cards,’ said he. ’Joe, you limber
them up and deal this hand.’

"Lescolette took the deck and riffled them for fully two minutes. Then
he spread them out all over the table, tossed them about every which way
for a bit, straightened them together in a bunch, riffled them again,
and passing them over to Cuthbert for the cut, dished them out.

"Cuthbert was one of those poker players who pick up their cards one by
one. It is terribly bad form, that, but Cuthbert, with his nervous
disposition, was addicted to it. He picked up his first card this time
and said, 'Ah, a good beginning.’ When he looked at his second card,
said he, ’Better yet.’ He made no comment upon his third card, but he
flushed and gave a start that was perceptible to every man in the room
save Lescolette, who was scanning his own hand. His fourth card took the
flush out of his cheeks and steadied him. He went pale when he looked at
it. He forgot to pick up his fifth card until Lescolette, looking up,
remarked: ’Phil, are you strong enough to beat me with only four cards?’
Then Cuthbert picked up his fifth card mechanically. It was a bad break,
his leaving his fifth card untouched until reminded of it. It announced,
simply, that he had pat fours. But he didn’t seem to think of this.

"Cuthbert’s $50 anteing chip was in the middle of the table. Lescolette
looked at it for a second, and seemed to be in more than one mind about
playing or making it a jack pot. He decided to play, and joggled in his
blue chip.

"’Suppose,’ said Cuthbert, still pale but steady, ’we make it $100 more
to play, Joe?’

"’Of course,’ said Lescolette, and he shoved in a yellow chip to match
Cuthbert’s.

"’How many?’ asked Lescolette, ready to dish out cards.

"’None,’ said Cuthbert, who looked queer and unnatural with his white
countenance and glowing eyes.

"’So strong as that on the go-in?’ said Lescolette, elevating his
eyebrows. ’You have me seined. I require a card.’ And he served himself
with it.

"I pretended to have a bit of business to attend to behind Cuthbert’s
chair, so I could glance at his hand. He had four aces. I couldn’t get
behind Lescolette’s chair, for three of the players’ friends were seated
behind him. Lescolette didn’t make any sign either of elation or
disappointment when he looked at the card he had drawn. He looked up for
a bet, for it was up to Cuthbert.

"’A thousand dollars, make it, Joe,’ said Cuthbert.

"’Oh, I’m not in so deeply that I can’t pull out of this pot,’ said
Lescolette good-naturedly. ’However, seeing it’s you, your thousand is
sighted, and it’s $5000 more.’

"This was precisely what Cuthbert wanted.

"’Now you’re racing,’ said he. ’Ten thousand more, Joseph Marie.’

"Lescolette looked up at Cuthbert suddenly.

"’I say, Cuthbert,’ said he, ’isn’t this a bit tumultuous and headlong,
as it were?’

"’I don’t see why you should consider it so, Joe,’ replied Cuthbert.
’I’m playing according to the value of my hand. However, if it seems to
strong, why’——

"’No, no, no,’ put in Lescolette, quickly. ’I can stand it, and I do not
seek to have you lower any of your raises. I simply was considering my
own almost invincible strength herein.’

"’I stood pat, and you drew a card, you know,’ said Cuthbert. ’I rarely
bluff. You are to regard me as a bit of an Atlas in this likewise. You
see the $10,000 raise?’

"’Surely’ said Lescolette, ’and elevate it another notch of $10,000.
Will one of you gentlemen’—addressing the somewhat wrought-up group of
lookers-on—’keep track of this with a bit of a pencil?’

"One of the men in the group got out a note-book and stood by to
register the bets.

"’Having emerged from the narrow domain of chance into the field of
uncertainty,’ said Cuthbert, ’I fear me I’ll have to make it still
another $10,000, Joe.’

"Lescolette, the more common-sense man of the two, rested his hands on
the table before him and reflected.

"’I don’t think I want any more of this, Cuthbert,’ he said. ’There is
now a great deal of money in the pot. It would be idle for either one of
us to say that we could easily afford to lose our respective share in
the pot as it stands. And yet, I don’t exactly feel like calling you.
I’m too well fixed. I haven’t had such a hand at poker since’——

"’That being the case,’ said Cuthbert, interrupting, 'why not be a
sportsman and play your string?’

"That remark nettled Lescolette just enough to hold him in indefinitely.
There was no more talk on his part.

"’Ten thousand more than you,’ he said, short and sharp.

"Then the friends of the two men began to mutter.

"’This is all very fine as an exhibition of gameness,’ they said,
collectively, ’but there is a stopping point, or should be.’

"When there was nearly $275,000 in the pot both Cuthbert and Lescolette
pulled out their notebooks and began to run over their bank accounts.
Both found that they had about tapped their supply of ready banked cash.
They wrote checks, payable to each other’s order, for their respective
shares of the amount in the pot, and then Cuthbert said:

"’Joe, I can’t let down in this. I could never quite forgive myself if I
did. Appraise my St. James land.’

"Lescolette protested. He had often visited Cuthbert at his beautiful
St. James place. He protested hard. Yet he wouldn’t call.

"’Appraise the St. James land, Joe,’ said Cuthbert again. Lescolette
declined to do it, and Cuthbert appealed to one of his friends to do it.

"’I should say your St. James plantations are worth close to $250,000,’
said this gentleman, unwillingly.

"’Very well,’ said Cuthbert. ’Shall I say, Joe, that those three squares
of yours on Canal street are worth the same amount?’

"Lescolette nodded gravely.

"’Rather more than they’re worth, I should say,’ he remarked.

"’Well, they’ll serve. I approximate their value,’ said Cuthbert, the
flush back in his face again and his eyes burning like coals. ’It is now
my bet, is it not? Joseph Marie, my St. James plantations, at their
appraised value of $250,000, against these, your Canal street property,
if you elect—and we’ll show down.’

"Lescolette nodded.

"’Old man,’ said Cuthbert, then, ’you don’t think I play it low down
upon you? I couldn’t throw them away, you fully understand? Joe, I’ve
got four aces!’

"’Truly?’ said Lescolette, inquiringly and quietly. 'Put them down, that
we may see.’

"Cuthbert, confident then that he was the winner, nervously placed his
hand face up on the table. Lescolette threw down, then, amid a very
intense silence, the deuce of hearts, face up. Next, he threw by the
side of the deuce the trey of hearts. Then the four of hearts. Then the
five of hearts. He halted then for a second. Cuthbert was as haggard
looking a man as I ever saw. Lescolette threw down the six of hearts.

"Cuthbert simply said, ’All right, Joe,’ walked over to the sideboard,
poured out a whopping big tumblerful of brandy, gulped it down, and,
with a murmured 'Good morning’ (it was dawn) he walked unsteadily out.
That afternoon he made his St. James plantations over to Lescolette,
notwithstanding the latter’s protests. He had about $20,000 out of the
wreck of his estate. He went to Honduras on a prospecting tour, found
gold, and died in a Tegucigalpa hut of the fever."




GREAT LUCK AT AN INOPPORTUNE TIME.


 _A Poker Game in Abilene, When Abilene Was Bad, in Which a Tenderfoot
                   Came Near Crossing the "Divide."_

"I had so much luck in a poker game I once sat into that I’ve never
played draw since," said a civil engineer who helped to build several of
the railroads west of the Missouri. "It happened in Abilene in the
summer of '70. We had then pushed the road about eight miles to the west
of Abilene. You know what Abilene was in '70. Dodge City was then a
camp-meeting grove compared with Abilene. The men belonging to our
construction gangs were a bad enough lot to make it worth any man’s
while to go light on them, but they were cooing doves alongside of the
batch of evil devils who had thrown the town of Abilene together in
anticipation of the building of the railroad. Before we got anywhere
near Abilene there was a pretty fair-sized and comfortably-filled
cemetery plotted out near the town. But when we got close enough to
Abilene to make it practicable for our construction men to put in their
spare time there, drinking 'sumac’ whisky and playing cards, between
knock-off on Saturday afternoon and jump-in on Monday morning, Joe
Geddes, the pine-box undertaker of Abilene, had more business than he
could handle, working night and day.

"From the time that we got ten miles this side of Abilene until the
rails were set twenty miles the other side of it, we lost construction
men so fast that the road’s employing agents in Leavenworth and Kansas
City had trouble in filling their places. Every Monday morning there was
a round-up of the dead and wounded in the whitewashed calaboose and
hospital in Abilene that reminded the ex-soldier surveyors who were with
me of their war experiences. The construction men got the worst of it,
of course. While they were game enough men, their weapons were their
fists, their knives, and sometimes their picks. But they were not up to
the science of fine gun work, whereas the Abileneites, composed chiefly
of left-over cowboys from the great Texas cattle-trail, whisky-dishers
from the slumped Colorado mining camps, and tin-horners and desperadoes
from everywhere, all knew how to pump lead like lathers spitting nails.

"Although a pretty young man at that time, I was in charge of the
surveyors’ gang. Most of the men in my gang were experienced, taciturn
chaps. The experiences they had picked up in bad towns along other
Western lines they had helped to map out had taught them the sense of
steering clear of such towns and of sticking to their tents. I don’t
suppose that a man of my gang walked through the streets of Abilene when
we brought the road there—not because they were in any sense cowardly,
but because they had learned in the course of years of frontiering that
trouble, and a whole lot of it, often overtakes men who are least in
search of it in towns like Abilene.

"These old-timers tried to talk me out of my determination to have a
look around in the town where so many of the men of the construction
gangs were being killed off—for I wanted to see what thorough
out-and-out bad men looked like. They told me that if I ever wanted to
see my folks back East any more I’d better not do any monkeying around
in Abilene. But I knew it all in those days, and so, without letting any
of the men in my gang know anything about it, I slipped over to the
chainmen’s tents one night and roped in a couple of them to handcar me
down to Abilene. When we reached the town I sent the chainmen back with
the handcar, telling them to return for me in the morning.

"Abilene rather surprised me at first. I at least expected to have my
hat shot off a few times in the course of an hour’s rambling around,
and, in fact, I was prepared to do a little impromptu dancing for the
edification of Abileneites, who enjoyed toying with strangers. Nothing
of the sort happened. Instead, the fellows hanging around the whisky
mills and the brace faro layouts good-naturedly took me in hand and
started in to give me a good time. I was a breezy young chap, you see,
and able to hold my own in any public exhibition of the swelled head I
unquestionably possessed at that time. Anyhow, things had not thoroughly
warmed up for the night when I fell in with the gang early in the
evening. It all looked so smooth and easy, and the heavy-artilleried
chaps that I ran into seemed so square and peaceable that I drank a good
deal more sagebrush whisky than I had any right to drink or than I had
ever drank before.

"Around about midnight five of us, including Jim Cathcart, a bad man who
was hanged a few years later for the murder of a Sheriff in Texas,
pulled up at Toole Kingsley’s ’Kansas or Bust’ saloon and faro bank. The
three other fellows I was with were outlawed cowboys, although I didn’t
know it then, and even if I had it wouldn’t have made any difference in
the shape I was in. Cathcart suggested a game of draw. He had probably
noticed my good-sized wad of money, and I guess he reckoned on getting
it. I didn’t have any more sense than to agree, and, the other three
chaps being willing, of course, we went up to the second floor of
Kingsley’s rum and faro honkatonk and waded in. When Cathcart suggested
the game I noticed that a tall, broad-shouldered, very muscular-looking
man, with long hair and a heavy mustache, who was standing with his back
to the bar, eyed us pretty carefully, and at the time I rather wondered
what he meant by it, though I forgot all about him five minutes later in
the intensity of the game.

"’Intense’ is not the word to describe that game of poker. I had been
plugging along at the game of draw more or less ever since I was a
growing lad, and after I had begun to shoulder an azimuth I had been an
onlooker at some mighty queer games. But I never saw cards run the way
they did that night. I was just about a fair to middling poker player;
certainly nothing extra, although I was deft of hand and knew how to
riffle cards in a way to bluff fellows not acquainted with my
comparative inferiority as a poker player into the belief that I was
some pumpkins with the pasteboards. But, second-rate player as I was,
and something over two parts loaded as I was, besides, in common with my
four fellow-players, the luck that I had from the very beginning of the
game was positively miraculous. None of the other men had a
half-skilletful of luck. It all came my way. It was embarrassing for a
while, but later on it became dangerous; for I was a total stranger to
these four men and a good deal oilier in manners and speech than they—a
thing that was likely to excite suspicion in towns like Abilene in those
days, especially in the minds of men steadily losing in a game of draw.

"Every man of the four persisted in giving me such massive hands to play
against the utterly no-account hands they dished out to themselves that
I didn’t know what to make of it. All four of them were reasonably good
poker players, but they were none of them short-carders—able to stack a
deck; and I had certainly never sat into a squarer game of draw. But my
own luck was absolutely magical. Pat hands were given to me about as
often as pairs were served out to the other fellows. Every time this
happened, and one or more of my opponents determined to find out if I
was bluffing on my pats, I laid down the hands with a little fear
growing within me; for after we had been playing for an hour or so I
noticed all four of ’em snatching glances at me out of the tails of
their eyes.

"After I had continued whacking all four of them pretty hard on their
own deals (rarely dealing myself a hand worth anything) for a couple of
hours, the luck took a peculiar switch, although it stayed with me. I
began to get nothing whatever on the deals of the other fellows, but on
my own deals I fed myself hands that actually smelt of brimstone, they
were so weird and inexplicable. One time I got four eights pat on my own
deal. I drew a card to give the impression that I was either drawing to
two pairs or bobbing to a straight or flush, and won a corking pot. I
was given some bad looks for this. Ten minutes later, when it was my
deal, I was kind enough to give myself a pat full, kings up on sevens,
and, the whole four staying, I rapped them again with all my might,
although the chill of fear was creeping over, in spite of the copious
quantities of fiery red liquor I was getting outside of along with the
others. Once the luck veered around this way, it seemed as if I never
got as much as ten high when the other fellows dealt. So the only thing
I could do was to drop my hands and stay out on their deals. They were
quick to notice this, and it didn’t improve my situation any, either.

"This extraordinary luck jumped me on my own deal only once after I had
caught and played those two self-dealt pat hands for all they were
worth. The result was that I was out of the game for quite a little
while, none of the other men serving me with hands fit to draw to.
Meanwhile the four of them played listlessly with me out of it, for I
had a good deal of the money of each, and they wanted it back. I think
all four of them had fully decided in their own minds by this time that
I was crooked and were only waiting for a chance to nail me.

"I had the buck when it came my turn to deal again, and so it was a
jackpot. I was wishing myself well out of it, and had cold feet, if ever
a man did, though I was afraid to say so with so much of my opponents’
money in my clothes. My hands probably trembled a little as I dealt that
round, and even this fact probably caused them to suspect that I was
monkeying with the deck and to watch me narrowly. The man on my left
opened the pot for the size of it, and all stayed. When I picked up my
hand and saw that I had given myself a clean, pat flush, ace on top, it
made me pretty nervous, and before I stayed I did a heap of considering.

"’The best thing you can do, young fellow,’ said I to myself, ’is to
stay out of this jack altogether, or else throw that straight of yours
face up in the center of the table, proving your squareness to these
cutthroats, and let them play the jack out among themselves. If you
don’t do one of these things, you’re going to get hurt in just about
three minutes.’

"Then I considered some more. Here I had a fine and probably winning
hand that I had come by perfectly on the level, and it would be rank
cowardice to throw it away, and mighty poor poker, besides.

"’I’ll be damned if I do any such thing just to convince these chaps
that I’m not a thief,’ was my final conclusion; and with that I made it
twice the size of the pot to draw cards. They all glowered I tell you
what, but they all stayed, every one of ’em. They not only stayed, but
they bet and raised each other like the devil, and forced me to
out-raise all of their raises every time it came around to me.

"Jim Cathcart, whose beady eyes had been blazing ever since I doubled
the value of the pot to draw cards, was as bad-looking a man as I want
to see when, finally, the man at my left called my last big raise. There
had probably been some signals in knee-rubbing under the table, for the
other two cowboys followed the lead of the first and called me in turn.
When it got around to Cathcart he slammed his bundle of greenbacks into
the pile with an oath.

"’Podner,’ said he, looking hard at me with his little red eyes, ’some
o’ your work here to-night has been so cut-an’-dried lookin’ as to
excite a whole lot of doubt about your bein’ on the level; an’ if you
happen to have anythin’ in that fist o’ your’n this time that’ll top
these here three aces o’ mine, then, by hell, you havin’ dealt this mess
yourself, there won’t be no manner o’ question but that you’re a damned
proper crook.’

"Was I scared? Well, the hand just fell out of my paw, face up on the
table, I was so scared! I was so paralyzed with fear that I simply
couldn’t move or say a word, and, what’s more, I’m not a particle
ashamed to own up to it. When the cards fell out of my hand Cathcart
reached over and spread them out with his left hand.

"’Well, by hell, you are a crook, ain’t you?’ he snapped when he saw the
value of the hand that beat his own good one, and as he spoke he whipped
out the big gun on the right side of his belt. I was blind with terror,
and when I heard the loud report of a gun I gave it all up and figured
that I was already three-quarters of the way over the Big Divide.

"When I opened my eyes a second later I saw Cathcart staring at the
door, his right arm hanging limp at his side. His gun had fallen on the
table without being discharged, and his left arm was in the air. So were
the six arms of the other three men, and they also had their eyes glued
on the door. I wheeled around to look that way myself. Standing quietly
under the lintel of the door, with his two big guns covering the five of
us, was the tall, broad-shouldered, long-haired man I had noticed eyeing
us before we started the game of poker. The man was Wild Bill, Abilene’s
celebrated Marshal. The shot I had heard when I had given the whole
thing up was from one of Wild Bill’s unerring guns. It had pinked
Cathcart in the right shoulder just in the nick of time, causing the gun
with which he had intended to shoot me to fall from his hand.

"’Slope for your camp, son,’ said Wild Bill to me quietly, still
covering the four men. Well, for all I know, he might be covering them
yet. I do know, though, that I was out of that room like a cat out of a
bag, and the way I cut for our camp, over the newly-laid ties, eight
miles away, was a warning to grasshoppers.

"It was while I was making this little journey, hitting a high place
only once in a while, that I came to the determination that for a man
who could not fight shy of bull-head luck any better than I could, the
game of draw poker was altogether too exciting and spirit-ruffling for
health and peace of mind; and I haven’t departed from that determination
down to the present moment of time."




CARD-PLAYING ON OCEAN STEAMERS.


_Some of the Crafty Dodges Resorted to by the Professional Sharpers Who
                          "Work the Liners."_

An Englishman who travels a good deal was generalizing at one of the
clubs last night on the subject of the card sharpers who devote
themselves exclusively to the ocean steamers.

"It’s a marvel to me," he said, "that the American steamship people, or
the police, or somebody, can’t drive these sharpers off the American
steamers. It’s nothing short of disgraceful. Must be something wrong
somewhere. Can’t be collusion, I don’t suppose, or"——

"Oh, come now, stow that, mate," said an American who does a bit of
traveling himself. "If they’re not worse, and more of them, on the
English transatlantic steamers, I’ll turn British subject, take the
Queen’s shilling, put on a red coat, and fight all the naked blacks from
Dahomey to"——

"Humbug! We don’t fight naked blacks. We only subdue them, that’s all.
Punitive expeditions, you know. But about these card sharpers on the
American ships. Why, it’s simply barbarous, you know, to permit them to
mingle with gentlemen as they do. And the worst of it is, the cads get
themselves up like gentlemen, so how’s a man to know"——

"Must have been hit yourself last trip over, old man," put in the
American.

The Englishman got red and flustered, as Englishmen will when compelled
to admit that the universe is not entirely an open book to them.

"Well, yes, I did," he admitted gamely. "Not very hard, though. I think
twenty guineas would about cover it. But it wasn’t the money so much. It
was the way the thing was done—positively beastly, I say. Man was
introduced to me on sailing day on the other side by an American I know
well. Good fellow, too. Man had been introduced to him by somebody else,
and so on, so that it would take a Scotland Yard man to trace how he
came to know and rob most of us coming across. Worst of it was, I myself
presented the chap to any number of fellows I knew on the ship, and all
of ’em got bit more or less, and all of ’em looked at me reproachfully
when it came out after we landed that the chap was a sharper, just as I
looked reproachfully at the man who"——

"Sort of endless chain, wasn’t it?" put in the American.

"Well, if you want to put it that way," said the Englishman. "And worse
still, the man got my guineas at my own game. If it had been poker, now,
I wouldn’t have minded so much, for I never could master that queer
game, and I don’t believe there’s anything in it, anyhow. But nap! Chap
beat me clean at nap, that I’ve been playing ever since I was at Harrow.
Odd, too, that I beat him easily at first and had all the luck, and was
probably fifty guineas ahead of him. Then suddenly the luck changed, you
see"——

The American smiled.

"What the deuce are you grinning at? The luck changed, as I say, and, by
Jove, the fellow positively couldn’t lose. If my daughter hadn’t become
ill on the fourth day out, I dare say I might have lost quite a bit of
money, and"——

"Unquestionably you would have," put in the American. "So that in one
respect your daughter’s illness—which I trust was not serious—was really
a blessing to you. It’s queer to me that no Englishman I have ever met
in ocean voyaging is able to perceive that when he is playing at cards
with a stranger who permits him to win easily and heavily at first, it
is time for him to make his devoirs, more or less respectful, to the
stranger, and proceed to take a constitutional on the main deck,
henceforth abjuring cards with said stranger. Now, an American is able
to see into that game right away. If he is playing with a friend, and
the friend is a winner from the go-off, as we say over here, all well
and good. The American voyager who is up to snuff puts his friend’s
initial winnings down to the chances of the game. But when he gets into
a game with a stranger, and the stranger simply shoves money from the
outset over to his side of the table—well, do you know what the American
of to-day does under those circumstances? He simply awaits the moment
when the luck begins to change, and then he has an imperative
appointment with his wife in the cabin. He thus picks up quite a bit of
cigar money from a man who he instinctively knows is a sharper."

"Fancy now," said the Englishman. "If I had only known that"——

"But you didn’t know, and, as I say, I never came across the Englishman
who did. Why, the ocean voyaging card sharpers have become so well aware
of this little shrewd habit of American passengers with whom they sit
down to a game that of late years they have altogether abandoned that
old, old trick of permitting their victims to win with ease at the
outset. They only work that trick nowadays on Englishmen. Fact is, I
think there ought to be a rule on all transatlantic steamships, English
and American, absolutely prohibiting British subjects from playing cards
at all aboard ship."

"Tommyrot!" said the Englishman.

"Not so much so as you might imagine," said the American. "Of course, I
don’t mean that literally, and yet I don’t know but what, after all, it
might be a good thing. I have watched the wake of a steamer on the trip
across the Atlantic fifty-two times—that is, I have made twenty-six
round voyages—and I suppose that on these voyages I have seen as many as
a thousand men plucked at cards. I will venture to assert that 80 per
cent. of them were Englishmen. So you will perceive there is some
justification for what I said about your countrymen playing cards aboard
ship.

"I’ve seen some clever men of your country badly done by the ocean-going
card sharpers, too. At the time your Lord Lonsdale came to the United
States—Violet Cameron incident, you know—he was a pretty young man, even
if he did at that period of his life stand in urgent need of a guardian
with a heavy club. Well, amid the newspaper uproar over his landing in
this country with the Cameron, the fact did not come out that Lonsdale
was plucked of $12,000 on the trip over by Ned Turner, one of the most
notable of the older clique of steamship sharpers. But it’s a fact, all
the same. I was not only a board the steamer at the time, but I was one
of a number of men who endeavored to pound some sense into young
Lonsdale’s head while the plucking was going on. But he was a stubborn
chap and would listen to no one, and even when he was quite convinced
that Turner was a sharper, at the end of the voyage he stood for his big
loss like a little man, and became genuinely angry at some of his
English friends aboard who recommended him to stop payment on the checks
he had given Turner to cover the greater portion of the plucking.

"I think Turner had it in mind to do Lonsdale when he got aboard at
Liverpool. Turner had been working the ships for fifteen years, in spite
of the efforts of the steamship companies to keep him off their vessels,
and at this time he was a man of 40 or thereabouts. Lonsdale was pretty
liberal in the use of wine at this time, and it was at the buffet that
Turner, who was a fine-looking insinuating and accomplished man, found
young Lonsdale on sailing day. The two men struck up a friendship from
the very first day of the voyage, and it was Lonsdale himself who first
suggested, as he afterward acknowledged—for he was a manly fellow—the
poker game. Lonsdale had only recently learned the hands in poker—which
is about all any man ever learns about it, if the truth were told—and he
had the poker initiate’s enthusiasm for the game to an exaggerated
extent. Before going any further, I ought to say that Turner always
maintained afterward that in his play with Lonsdale he was perfectly on
the level.

"’The young fellow insisted on playing,’ said Turner, 'and he couldn’t
play any more than my aunt in Connecticut. I played with him, because
that’s my business. But I didn’t have to play crooked—and I don’t admit
that I ever did play crooked, understand—to get his $12,000.’

"Well, at any rate young Lonsdale and Turner started the game on the
first day out, and kept it going almost until the steamer passed Fire
Island. Of course Turner beat him right along. He made no effort to let
Lonsdale win from him at first. He simply played poker and raked in the
young man’s money and checks. A lot of us aboard knew Turner, and those
of us who had met Lonsdale in England got him aside on the second day
out and diplomatically put it to him that he was engaged in a pretty
difficult encounter—that, in brief, Turner was a professional player of
cards. For our pains we were told that we were too confoundedly
officious, that he was more than 7 years of age and knew what he was
about, and all the rest—you know the talk of a boy; and this boy was
flushed, too, you understand.

"At any rate, when the steamer was drawing near this shore Lonsdale
decided that he had had enough—not that he would not have gone on
playing for another seven days, had the voyage been protracted to that
extent, but he had to get ready to land. Several of us were in the
card-room when the last hand was played. Turner won the hand and
Lonsdale scribbled a check on his American banker for the amount the
hand represented. Then he looked up at Turner for a minute and said:

"’Some of my friends here estimate you a little unkindly, Mr. Turner.’

"’How’s that?’ inquired Turner, looking not a whit surprised.

"’Well,’ said Lonsdale, ’they maintain that your skill at cards affords
you something better than a livelihood.’

"’I never denied that,’ said Turner coolly.

"’In playing with me on this voyage you have employed skill alone?’

"’At your suggestion, I have played draw poker with you for seven days.
I understand draw poker, and I have $12,000 of your money. Do you want
it back?’

"You see, that was a magnificent bluff on Turner’s part. The young chap,
he knew, would not welch.

"’Oh, if you choose to be insulting’——said Lonsdale, flushing hotly, and
he rose from the card-table and left the room.

"Well, a couple of elderly Englishmen aboard who knew Lonsdale and his
father before him went to him then and told him that it would be
perfectly proper and right for him to stop payment on the checks he had
given to Turner, who, they told him in so many words, was nothing short
of a swindler.

"’Mind your own damned business,’ said Lonsdale. 'I’ll do nothing of the
sort,’ and that was the end of it. It must be confessed that you folks
over there have a wonderfully game fashion of sticking to a bad
proposition; but I, for one, think it is pure vanity. Turner was kept
off the ships of all the lines after that, and I don’t know what became
of him.

"How they contrived to keep Turner off the ships unless he really wished
to remain off is something that I can’t explain, for it is simply a
plain statement of fact to say that the steamship companies have always
found, and probably always will find, it impossible to prevent the card
sharpers from running on their boats. They have often tried it. They
tried it on one notable occasion, as I remember, with George McGarrahan,
in 1881. McGarrahan was the Nestor of the steamship card sharpers, and
all the steamship companies knew him. The president of one of the most
prominent transatlantic lines sent for McGarrahan—who, by the way, has
since died in New York—and told him that he would not be permitted to
travel henceforth on the vessels of the line.

"’The deuce you say!’ replied McGarrahan. ’How are you going to stop
me?’

"’Refuse to give you passage,’ answered the president.

"’You will, will you?’ said McGarrahan. ’Well, if you do that, I’ll get
enough damages out of your line to make it unnecessary for me ever to
touch a card again as long as I live.’

"His position was correct in law, as the president of this line found
out upon investigation. The steamship company, you understand, is not
the regulator of the habits of its steamers’ passengers. If the
passengers don’t know any better than to play cards with sharpers, that
is their own lookout. And a steamship company cannot decline to sell
passage to a man because it claims he is a short-card player. It
devolves upon the company to prove that the man is a card sharper, and
the steamship people know that this is practically impossible, for no
man who is done at cards by one of these men on an ocean steamship is
going to rise in his seat and make announcement of the fact to the
world.

"Observation tells me that there are not nearly so many of these men on
the ships now as formerly. The short-card players who make a business of
traveling have found the trains much more profitable, since the officers
of the steamers got into the habit of going quietly among the voyagers
of a card-playing turn and warning them of the danger of getting into
games with such and such men. That was the system, and a pretty
effectual one, too, adopted by the steamship companies to squelch the
ocean card sharpers. The result has been that the sharper can now only
make a general campaign of all the big steamers—and the big steamers are
the only steamers they consider worth working—before the officers know
them, and then their game is dead practically. So that they find it more
profitable to take to the swell trains on the swell runs, making the
same trip rarely, and thus preventing their countenances from getting
too familiar to the railroad people."

"How the deuce do you know all this?" inquired the Englishman.

"Well," replied the American, "you may be pretty certain that I haven’t
dreamed it. Besides, I figured it that you required some consolation for
the loss of your twenty guineas. Didn’t you?"




THIS DOG KNEW THE GAME OF POKER.


 _That, at Least, is What the Dog’s Owner Claimed, and the Dog’s Owner
                            Ought to Know._

"For a fox terrier, that dog don’t seem to know a whole lot," said one
of the men in the back room of an uptown café.

The old fox terrier was burying his gray muzzle in the lap of his master
and wagging his stump of a tail foolishly. His master was a squat,
thin-faced man of the all-aged class; that is, he might have been
anywhere from 30 to 55 years of age. Running away from the corners of
his shrewd eyes were many tiny wrinkles. In his get-up he looked like
ready money. He lapped the dog’s clipped ears one over the other and
looked reminiscent.

"Well," said he, replying to the other man’s remark, "I can’t say that
he does look dead wise and smooth to the naked eye. He’s not one of
these here fresh sooner dogs that wants to put you next to all he knows
the first clatter out o’ the box. He’s no trick mutt, anyhow. I raised
him from a pup, and I never taught him any of the jay tricks that these
pillow-raised, dog-cracker mutts go through. What he don’t know about
standing up in a corner and hopping over a cane and speaking for grub
and waltzing on his front feet and playing ’possum, and all that kind o’
dinky work, would fill a big book. But if any of you people think you
can give him any points on the value of hands in a game of poker, then
you need a new dope cook, and that’s which."

"Poker?" said another of the party, incredulously. "Say, shoot it in
light. Your yen-hok’s overworked."

"That’s what I said—poker," replied the fox terrier’s owner, firmly.
"I’m putting you next now, because I don’t make it a business to do pals
in a poker game. He’s the best poker dog on the American continent, that
mutt. Can’t begin to figure on how many times he’s won me out, and for
how much. He’s sulked on me two or three times at critical junctures in
games of draw, and given me the wrong tips, just to get square with me
for something or other, but that was when he was young and sassy and
disposed to work his edge on me. He’s been tipping me off right now for
seven straight years, and—well, I’ve got a dollar or two scattered
around," and the owner of the poker dog slowly pulled the tinfoil off a
25-cent cigar.

"Didn’t have a bit o’ trouble teaching him the game, I suppose?" asked
one of the men at the table.

"Well," replied the fox terrier’s owner, striking a match on his
diamond-incrusted match safe, "I can’t say that teaching him the hands
was altogether a snap. At first he used to get the kings and jacks mixed
once in a while, and then he had a habit, when he was learning the game,
of getting the eights and tens twisted, too. But I broke him of those
defects after a while. It wasn’t so much trouble teaching him the value
of the hands in poker as it was to fix up a sign manual by which he
could express himself and tip me off on the hands held by the other
fellows. But patience was my long suit in teaching that dog the game of
poker, and in less than a year after I showed him the first pack of
cards he ever saw, he was able to put me onto the worth of every hand
around a table without any of the marks falling to the scheme. His
method of communicating such information to me during the progress of a
game is a bit involved and intricate, and we’ve got a lot of little code
signs that would require too much elaboration in the explaining, but
I’ll just give you a little idea of the way the thing works.

"Suppose I’m sitting in a four-handed game. The dog is nosing around the
room, not in any ostentatious kind of way and not getting himself
noticed at all by the other three in the game. A hand is dished out. The
dog noiselessly rubbernecks behind the chair of the first player on his
route. The first player, we’ll say, has got a pair of sevens, and I’ve
got my eye on the dog. The dog quietly gapes twice, to indicate that
player No. 1 has a pair, and then blinks both of his eyes seven times in
rapid succession. See? Of course I know then that No. 1 has only got a
pair of bum sevens. I pretend to scan my hand, while the dog quietly
gets behind the chair of player No. 2. We’ll say No. 2 has three queens.
The dog passes his right paw over his right eye three times. If it’s
three kings, left paw over his left eye three times. If it’s three
bullets he puts his left paw at his nose and holds it there for a
second, and, if three jacks, his right paw at his nose. Savvy? And so
on. He’s got the whole manual and code worked out to a stretch finish.
If No. 3 has got a pat flush he closes his left eye and keeps it closed
until he sees I’m noticing him. If No. 3 has got a pat full house he
shuts up his right eye in the same way.

"This, of course, is only preliminary and it only puts me next to what
the marks around the table have got in their hands before the draw. If
they’re too well fixed for me before the draw, of course I drop out of
it there and then. But if I’ve got a pretty good fist full myself and am
as good as any of ’em before the draw, why of course I draw to my hand.
Just as quick as all the fellows that stay in pick up the cards they’ve
drawn the dog does his little act all over again and tips me off on
those that have filled their hands. Makes the game dead easy, don’t it?
If I wanted to play the scheme to its limit, which would be a fool trick
and probably result in that dog getting himself stuffed and mounted by
some loser getting next to his gag, I’d have too much money. But I never
went into it too heavy. I’ve let good things take coin off me so fast
that I almost got pneumonia, and me knowing all the time just what they
had in their hands. The Chinese bluffs that some of ’em have put up,
too! Of course I’d only play off on ’em for a while, just long enough to
make them look on me as something easy, and then me and the dog’d waltz
in and chew their manes off close to the hide.

"Yes, siree, that dog’s been a sure enough meal ticket for me for a long
while. But, as I told you a while back, he sulked on me two or three
times and gave me the wrong steer when he was young and perky and hot
over something or other, and I got hurt on these occasions, for a fact.
Remember one of those times particularly. I’d been playing for several
nights in succession with three young jays of real estate men out in
Minneapolis and letting ’em take slathers of it off me just to get them
interested. All three of ’em had gobs of the green and I figured on
making ’em all move out to Seattle or somewhere by the time me and the
dog got through with them. The mutt was only a two-year-old then, but he
was playing mighty fine poker, and these three Minneapolis ducks looked
like a fine clean-up. On the afternoon of the fourth night that we got
together in the game I’d got hot over the mutt chewing one of my hats
all to pieces—fox terriers are worse than goats for chewing things
up—and I’d given him three or four good raps over the side of the head.
He didn’t like this a little bit—I could see that. He wouldn’t have much
to do with me for the remainder of the afternoon and I couldn’t con him
into becoming friendly again, either. He just looked at me out of the
tail of his eye, as much as to say, ’I’m going to throw you the first
chance I get,’ but of course I couldn’t figure that he’d carry his
sulkiness into the game of draw that night, when I intended to begin on
my three good things and crimp up their wallets.

"That night I took the mutt with me, as usual, to the house of one of
the good things, where we played. I couldn’t get the dog to be very
chummy with me, though, even after spending a large part of the
afternoon trying to soft soap him. The licking I had given him still
rankled within him, but I figured that he would forget all about it in
the excitement of the game after we got going. I was more than ever
confident that he was all right when he tipped me off right on the first
dozen rounds of hands, during which I picked out most of the winnings.

"I dealt the thirteenth mess myself and when the two beyond the ante man
declined to stay I made it a jackpot, having the buck. I caught three
aces and the pot looked nice for me, even without the mutt to joggle me
along. The man after the dealer opened it, the jay next to him stayed
and so did I, of course. The dealer stayed with a rush and it looked
like a nice, neat jack to win—for it was a $100 limit game and all of
the three good things thought they knew how to play poker. The dog
tipped me off that the man who opened the pot had three fours, the chap
next to him two pairs and the dealer a pair of kings. I drew to my hand,
of course, and when the guy that opened the pot stood pat I said to
myself, ’That’s a pretty cold bluff that duck’s making, standing pat on
his three fours.’ The mutt’s tips told me, of course, that I had ’em all
topped and I just lay back and listened to their bets, knocking heaps
off my chip piles and raising 'em right along with all the confidence in
the world.

"I commenced to admire that pot-opener with the three fours who had
stood pat for a bluff when he kept raising it the limit. Between us we
raised the other two out after it had gone around a number of times, and
then that geezer with the three fours sat back to bluff me out, as I
thought. I wasn’t a bit worried by the cool, confident look on his mug,
for I knew that that mutt of mine never made any mistakes, and I knew
that I had him beat. When there was $3,800 in the pot I got to the end
of my chips, and, as it was table stakes and we had arranged that no
more chips could be bought during the playing of a hand, I called the
pot opener, at the same time chucking down my three bullets, and was
fixing to haul in the pot.

"’Hold on there a minute,’ said the man with the three fours—as I
thought—when he saw me reaching for the pot, ’I’ve got a nice pat
straight, from one to five,’ and he showed the cards up in their order
on the table.

"’The dust is yours,’ said I, choking back a lot of cuss words, and just
then I looked behind the chair of the winner and caught the eye of that
dog. If there wasn’t a gleam of triumph in his eye, damme! He looked
square back at me for ten straight seconds, as much as to say, ’You
didn’t think I’d dish you in the game, did you?’ and then he walked over
in front of the fireplace, plunked himself down, and that was the finish
of that four-handed game. I knew that I couldn’t get any good out of the
dog for the rest of that night, and I did a sudden watch-studying act,
told the jays of a forgotten engagement, and got out. I had expected to
clean up about $10,000 out of those three jays, and durned if I didn’t
quit more’n $2,000 loser on account of that dog, for I had only begun to
win back what I had let them take away from me when the mutt turned me
down. The mutt followed me back to the hotel with a sulky eye, as if he
expected to be clubbed for his little game of crooked steering, but you
can gamble that I cut out the clubbing so far as he was concerned for
good. I had won him back inside of a week or so, and he never did me
dirt on calling the turn after that.

"Me and the dog were covering Kansas City, St. Louis, Memphis, and that
circuit about three years ago, taking it off easy ones in comfortable
hunks, when I stacked up against a pretty wise one. It was in Knoxville,
where I had got together a playing squad of three young ones that looked
ripe for plucking. I got into ’em pretty fairly after a week’s work, and
the mutt was in great form. One of the good things—the one that I got
into the hole worse than any of the others—seemed to be taking a great
interest in the mutt after he had been stacking up, a bad loser, against
our game for ten days or so, but there wasn’t a pin-head of suspicion in
his face. He just seemed to like to watch the dog’s rubber-necking
antics, and one night, when he was dropping slathers of it to me, he
studied the moves of the dog with unusual intentness.

"’You ought to teach that poodle how to play draw,’ said he to me, and I
was beginning to fear he was getting next. But he kept on looking as
moon-faced and easy as usual and losing right along, though I couldn’t
help noticing how carefully he watched the moves of the mutt.

"The next night, when we again sat down at the game, I again noticed
that the young geezer had his eye on the dog’s moves behind the chairs.
I also noticed that he generally stayed when I fell out after the draw,
and that when he did stay, with me out, he very often took big hunks out
of the other two young fellows. I couldn’t quite get next to this, the
duck looked such a Rube. Finally a big jack came around, and I, only
having eight high, kept out of it. One of the other young fellows opened
the pot, the man next to him stayed, and the moon-faced Rube, who had
been watching my dog so carefully, raised the both of ’em before the
draw. It was a good, stiff raise he gave ’em, at that. They stood it and
stayed in. They bet around for fifteen minutes, and then the slob who
had been studying the mutt was called by both of them, and beat them
both out with his queen full on sixes. I thought that was kind o’ queer,
especially in view of his earnest study of my poodle, and so I got cold
feet in order to have a chance to think the thing over. Oddly enough,
the moon-faced-looking dub got cold feet at the same time, and was out
on the street with me a little while later. We had walked a block or so,
chinning, when he gives me a dig in the slats, and says he, grinning:

"’Great dog, that, of yours.’

"I turned around and sized him up.

"’Pretty fair mutt,’ said I.

"’Only thing about him is,’ went on this soft-looking guy that you
wouldn’t think knew the difference between sand and slag, ’he wants to
change his code. It took me a week to get next to it, but I had it safe
to-night, all right. I’m only $2,000 ahead on the night’s play, which
makes me $500 more than even. You want to teach the mutt new business
before some other duck that looks as much like a dead one as I do comes
along, tumbles to the dog’s wig-wag system, and does you out of a good
bundle. By the way,’ he wound up, ’what kennel did that one come from?
Where’s the rest of the litter? I’d like to have a brother of him.’
Queer how he got onto the game, wasn’t it?"

"Yes, very," replied the man who had doubted the fox terrier’s
possession of any intelligence.




WIND-UP OF A TRAIN GAME OF POKER.


 _One of the Players Hadn’t Long to Live, Anyhow, and So He Took a Hand
                           for a Final Deal._

"I haven’t played any cards on railroad trains, even with friends, for
the past seven years," said Joe Pinckney, the Boston traveling man who
sells bridges and trestles in every land, at a New York hotel the other
night, "and it’s more than certain that, for the remainder of my string,
I shall never again sit into a train game, whether it’s old maid,
casino, whist or draw—especially draw. I used to play cards most of the
time when I was on the road just to relieve the monotony of traveling. I
don’t recall that it ever cost me much, for I generally broke even and
often a little ahead on a years’ play. I very rarely sat into a game in
which all of the other players were strangers to me, especially when the
game was draw or something else at so much a corner, and so I never got
done out of a cent.

"I know so many traveling men that a drummer friend of mine has an even
money bet with me that I won’t be able to board a single train, anywhere
in this country, for the space of a year, without my being greeted by
some traveling chap with whom I am acquainted, and he wins up to date,
though the bet was made more than eight months ago. So that, when I used
to be in the habit of playing cards on the trains I always had some
fellow or fellows on the other side of the table that I knew to be on
the level. But I had an experience on a Western train seven years ago
that sort o’ soured me on the train game; in fact, that experience
knocked a good deal of the poker enthusiasm out of me, and since then,
whenever I’ve got into a game with friends or acquaintances in a hotel
room, I’ve sized them up pretty carefully to see if they were all robust
men. Maybe you don’t understand what possible connection there can be
between physical robustness and the game of American draw just now, but
you’ll understand it when I tell you of this experience.

"In the spring of 1891 I got aboard the night train of the ’Q,’ Chicago
to Denver. The train left Chicago at 9 o’clock at that time. When I was
seven years younger than I am now I never sought a sleeper bunk until 1
or 2 in the morning, and when I found that there wasn’t a man on this
sleeper with whom I had ever a bowing acquaintance I felt a bit
lonesome. I started through the train to hunt up the news butcher to get
from him a bunch of traveling literature, and in the car ahead of me I
found Tom Danforth, the Michigan stove man, an old traveling pal of
mine. I sat down to have a talk with Tom when along came George
Dunwoody, the Chicago perfumery man, who had also paralleled me a lot of
times on trips. Inside of four minutes I had pulled both of 'em back to
my car and we had a game of cut-throat draw under way in the smoking
compartment. We started in at quarter ante and dollar limit, but when I
pulled ’way ahead of of both of them within an hour or so and they
struck for dollar ante and five-dollar limit, I was agreeable.

"We were plugging along at this game, all three of us going pretty slow,
and both of them gradually getting back the money I had won in the
smaller game, when a tall, very thin and very gaunt-looking young fellow
of about thirty entered the smoking compartment and dropped into a seat
with the air of a very tired man. I sat facing the entrance to the
compartment, and I thought when I saw the man’s emaciated condition and
the two bright spots on his cheekbones, ’Old man, you’ve pretty nearly
arrived at your finish, and if you’re making for Denver now I think
you’re a bit too late.’ My two friends didn’t see the consumptive when
he entered the room, for their backs were turned to the door, but when,
while I was dealing the cards, the new arrival put his hand to his mouth
and gave a couple of short, hacking coughs, Dunwoody turned around
suddenly and looked at him.

"’Why, hello there, Fatty,’ exclaimed Dunwoody, holding out his hand to
the emaciated man, ’where are you going? Denver? Why, I thought you were
there long ago? Didn’t I tell you last fall to go there or to Arizona
for the winter? D’ye mean to say that you’ve been in Chicago all winter
with that half a lung and that bark o’ yours? How are you now, anyhow,
Fat?’

"The emaciated man smiled the weary smile of the consumptive.

"’Oh, I’m all right, George,’ he said, sort o’ hanging on to Dunwoody’s
hand. ’Going out to Denver to croak this trip, I guess. Didn’t want to
go, but my people got after me and they’re chasing me out there. I
wanted them to let me stay in Chicago and make the finish there, but
they wouldn’t stand for it. My mother and one of my sisters are coming
along after me next week.’

"’Finish? What are you giving us, Fatty?’ asked Dunwoody,
good-naturedly, but not with a great amount of belief in his own words,
I imagine. ’You’ll be selling terra cotta tiles when the rest of us’ll
be wearing skull caps and cloth shoes. Cut out the finish talk. You look
pretty husky, all right.’

"’Oh, I’m husky all right,’ said the consumptive, with another weary
smile, and then he had another coughing spell. When that was over
Dunwoody introduced him to us.

"’Ed, alias Fatty, Crowhurst,’ was Dunwoody’s way of introducing him.
’Sells tiles, waterworks pipes and conduits. Called Fatty because he’s
nearly six and a half feet high, has never weighed more than
thirty-seven pounds (give or take a few), and has never since any one
knew him had more’n half a lung. Thinks he’s sick, and has laid himself
on the shelf for over a year past. No sicker than I am. Used to have the
record west of the Alleghanies for cigarette smoking. You’ve cut the
cigarettes out, haven’t you, Fat?’

"For reply the consumptive pulled out a gold cigarette case, extracted a
cigarette therefrom and lit it. It was a queer thing to see a man in his
state of health smoking a cigarette. Dunwoody’s eyes stuck out over it.

"’Well, if you ain’t a case of perambulating, lingering suicide, Fatty,
I never saw one,’ said he to his friend.

"’It’s all one,’ was the reply. ’It’s too much punishment to give ’em
up, and it wouldn’t make any difference anyhow.’

"I had meanwhile dished the hands out, and after my two friends had
drawn cards and I made a small bet they threw up their hands.

"’Draw, eh?’ said the emaciated man, addressing Dunwoody. 'How about
making it four-handed?’

"’Oh, you’d better take it out in sleeping, Fat,’ replied Dunwoody. ’You
look just a bit tired, and we’re going to make a night of it, most
likely, with whisky trimmings. You can’t do that very well without
hurting yourself, and if you came in and we got into you you’d feel like
playing until you evened up, and ’ud get no rest. Better not come in,
Fat. Better hit your bunk for a long snooze. We’ll have breakfast
together when they hitch on the dining car at Council Bluffs.’

"’I haven’t sat into a game of draw for a long while,’ said Dunwoody’s
friend, ’and I’d rather play than eat.’

"There was a bit of pathos in that remark, I thought, and I kicked
Dunwoody under the table.

"’Well, jump in then, Fatty,’ said Dunwoody, and the poor chap drew a
chair up to the table with a look of pleasure on his drawn, hollow face,
with its two brightly burning spots on the cheekbones.

"It soon became apparent that Dunwoody’s fear about our ’getting into’
the consumptive didn’t stand any show whatever of being realized. The
emaciated man was an almighty good poker player, nervy, cool, and
cautious, and yet a good bit audacious at that. I caught him
four-flushing and bluffing on it several times, but he got my money
right along in the general play, all the same, and after an hour’s play
he had the whole three of us on the run. I was about $100 to the rear,
and Dunwoody and Danforth had each contributed a bit more than that to
the consumptive’s stack of chips. The fact was, he simply outclassed the
three of us as a poker player—and, by the way, I wonder why it is that
men that have got something the matter with their lungs are invariably
such rattling good poker players? I’ve noticed this right along. I never
yet sat into a poker game with a man that had consumption in one stage
or another of it that he didn’t make me smoke a pipe for a spell. That
would be a good one to spring on some medical sharp for an explanation.

"By the time midnight came around Dunwoody’s friend with the pulmonary
trouble had won about half as much again from us, and Dunwoody began to
look at his watch nervously. The three of us were taking a little nip at
frequent intervals, just enough to brush the cobwebs away, but the
sick-looking man didn’t touch a drop. He smoked one cigarette after
another, however, inhaling the smoke into his shrunken lungs, and the
sight made all of us feel sorry, I guess, for the foolhardiness of the
man. Finally Dunwoody looked at his watch and then raised his eyes and
took a survey of the countenance of the consumptive, which was
overspread with a deep flush. The consumptive’s eyes were
extraordinarily bright, too.

"’Fatty,’ said Dunwoody, ’cash in and go to bed. 'You’ve had enough of
this. Poker and 112 cigarettes for a one-lunger bound for Colorado for
his health! Cash in and skip!’

"’No, I don’t want to quit, George,’ said the consumptive. 'I haven’t
had anything like enough yet. What’s more, I’ve got all of you fellows
too much in the hole. I only wanted to come in for the fun of it,
anyhow, and here I am with a lot of the coin of the three of you. I’ll
just play on until this pay streak deserts me and give you fellows a
chance to win out.’

"When he finished saying this the man with the wasted lungs had another
violent spell of coughing and Dunwoody looked worried. But he gave in.

"’All right, Fat,’ he said, ’do as you derned please, but I don’t want
to be boxing you up and shipping you back to the lake front.’

"Then the game proceeded. I don’t think any of us felt exactly right,
playing with a man who looked as if his days were as short-numbered as a
child’s multiplication table, but maybe the fact that he was such a
comfortable winner from us mitigated our sympathy for him just a little
bit. He kept on winning steadily for the next hour, and about half past
1 in the morning there was a good-sized jackpot. It went around half a
dozen times, all of us sweetening it for five every time the deal
passed, and finally, on the seventh deal, which was the consumptive’s,
Danforth, who sat on his left, opened the pot. I stayed, and so did
Dunwoody. When it was up to the dealer he nodded his head to indicate
that he would stay. We were all looking at him, and we noticed that he
had gone pale. It was noticeable after the deep flush that had covered
his face when he entered.

"Danforth took two cards. I drew honestly and to my hand, which had a
pair of kings in it, and I caught another one. Dunwoody asked for three
and then the dealer put the deck down beside him.

"’How many is the dealer dishing himself?’ we all happened to ask in
chorus.

"’None,’ answered the sick man, who seemed to be getting paler all the
time.

"’Pat, hey, Fatty?’ said Dunwoody. ’Must be pretty well fixed, or, say,
are you woozy enough to try a bluff on this? You don’t expect to bluff
Danforth out of his own pot?’

"The consumptive only smiled a wan smile.

"’Well, I hope you are well fixed,’ went on Dunwoody, 'for it’s your
last hand. I’m going to send you to your bunk as soon as I win this
jack.’

"’The limit,’ said Danforth, the pot-opener, skating five white chips
into the center.

"’Five more,’ said I, putting the chips in.

"’I’ll call both of you,’ said Dunwoody, shoving ten chips into the
pile.

"It was up to Dunwoody’s consumptive friend. He opened his lips to speak
and little dabs of blood appeared at both corners of his mouth. His head
fell back and at the same time the cards in his hands fell face up on
the table. The hand was an ace high flush of diamonds. Dunwoody was
standing over him in an instant, and Danforth and I both jumped up.
Dunwoody wiped the blood away from the man’s mouth with his handkerchief
and then put the back of his hand on the man’s face.

"’It’s cold,’ said Dunwoody, with a queer look.

"Then he placed his ear to his friend’s heart. We waited for him to look
up with a good deal of suspense. He raised his head after about thirty
seconds.

"’Crowhurst’s dead,’ was all he said.

"Dunwoody telegraphed ahead for an undertaker to meet the train at
Omaha. He gathered up the cards, too, and the chips.

"’Crowhurst won that pot,’ he whispered to us. ’His pat flush beat all
of our threes.’

"Dunwoody was banker and he cashed all of the dead man’s chips. Then he
took Crowhurst’s body back from Omaha to Chicago in a box. Dunwoody
handed the $580 the dead man had won from us to his mother, telling her
that her son had given him the money to keep for him before turning into
his sleeper bunk.

"That," concluded the man who sells bridges and trestles, "is the reason
I’ve cut card-playing on trains for the past seven years."




QUEER PACIFIC COAST POKER.


_When You Get into a Game of Draw in California It Is Well to Ascertain
                         the Rules in Advance._

"Before sitting into a game of poker anywhere near tidewater out on the
Pacific coast you’ll always find it a pretty good scheme to make a few
preliminary inquiries of your fellow players as to the kind of poker
you’re expected to mix up with," said a traveling man who had recently
returned to the East after a tour on the Slope. "Because I neglected to
do this myself on several occasions I got into all sorts of embarrassing
situations and all colors of poker trouble all the way from Portland,
Ore., to San Diego, Cal., and the fellows with whom I did little stunts
at draw—all good people, business men I met with through letters—put me
down as the worst jay in a game of cards that ever crossed the Rocky
Mountains. The folks out there think we’re all jays back here, anyhow,
if for no other reason than that we haven’t enough brains to migrate in
a body to the Pacific Slope, but they complacently told me that I was
the worst of the species they had ever seen, simply because I couldn’t
seem to get the hang of the queer old game they call poker out in that
country.

"The game they dub poker out there isn’t poker at all, in my opinion.
It’s a hybrid sort of affair, full of fancy moves that must have been
chucked into the original game by early California vaqueros with such a
taste for embellishment that they had to tack gilt fringe on to their
pants and to encircle their hats with silver cable. Whatever they call
it, it’s not American draw poker by a darned sight. The kind of poker
that I was raised on—the real thing, the article of draw that we play on
this side of the Alleghanies—doesn’t take any more account of the joker,
for instance, than it does of the card case; but out in California they
think a man’s plumb blind crazy if he registers a kick over having the
joker in the deck. I’d as lief play old maid or grab for corn-silk
cigarettes as play draw poker with the joker mixed up in it; but out
there I had to take the game as it was served up, and, as between poker
with a joker and no poker at all, I, of course, accepted the lesser of
the two evils and played. But I got dumped on the game for about 2,000
miles of coast line, and that, too, by people who didn’t have to count
themselves because they were so many at the game. The trouble was that I
played the game of draw that I was brought up on and they played their
crossbred game, and the result was just about as queer as it would be to
see a baseball pitcher chucking up a Rugby football to a cricket batsman
with a fence picket in his hands.

"I’ll not forget my first run-in with this poker-joker idea. This was my
first visit to the slope, you know and, although I’d often heard vaguely
that young ’uns, playing draw for beans or tin tags, once in a while
shoved the joker into the pack for the fun of the thing. I, of course,
never dreamed that rational adult human beings in any quarter of the
earth could have the nerve to inflict such a dismal outrage upon the
noble game of draw as to slap the joker into a poker deck. But I found
out different the very first game of draw that I sat into out in San
Francisco.

"It was a four-handed game, and I was the only Eastern man in the bunch.
The other three fellows were business men who belong to the Native Sons’
organization, which accounts for the weird brand of poker they played.
They played what was taught ’em in their youth out there; didn’t know
any better, and thought, and no doubt still think, that their game is
right.

"I was banker, and dished up the first hand. It was 25 cents ante and $5
limit. I gave myself two rattling good pairs, kings up on tens. All of
the other fellows stayed, and the man on my right made it a couple of
dollars more to draw cards. This let two of ’em out of it, but I thought
my two pairs were good enough for a $2 raise, and so I played with the
raiser. He drew one card, and so, of course, did I. It was his bet, and
he came at me on the double with the limit. I’d caught another king, and
had as neat-looking a full house as a man needs to have in any kind of a
game.

"’Five more’n you,’ said I, and we shuttled the limit back and forth
until we each had about $50 in the pot. Said I to myself, ’I’ve got you
beat, my boy, for the percentage of the game is ’way against your
holding fours against my full hand, especially on the first clatter out
of the box, and, even if you’ve filled those two pairs of yours—which
you probably haven’t, for the percentage is plumb against you—you
certainly haven’t got aces on top.’ Now, that was good poker reasoning,
the kind of reasoning that has kept me necktie and peanut money ahead of
the game anyway for twenty years or so, and I gave him the raise-back
just as often as he threw it at me.

"’Finally,’ said he, ’we are getting out of our depth and beyond the
breaker line, ain’t we? I’ve got you man-handled, but you junipers from
the East never can feel the hunch when you are licked, and so I’ll skate
in my little five and call you.’

"We each had about $80 in the pot then.

"I spread out my three royal gentlemen topping the pair of tens, and was
just about to make some good-natured crack about getting a hoe to scoop
in my winnings on the first hand, when he spread out his hand and raked
in the pot with a smile. His hand consisted of a pair of aces up on a
pair of sixes and the joker.

"’What the dickens are you doing there?’ I asked him when he raked in
the pot. ’Can’t you see it’s a misdeal? I forgot to take the joker out
of the deck.’

"’Misdeal nothing,’ he said, still smiling. ’You had a good hand all
right, but aces beat kings, you know, anywhere from Tuolume to Tucson.’

"’Yes,’ said I, ’but you’ve only got aces up, and I’ve got a full hand,
kings up, and it’s a misdeal, anyhow’——

"Well, they all looked at me like they thought I ought to be in a
lunatic asylum.

"’Misdeal?’ said my friend who had swiped the pot. 'What the deuce are
you giving us, anyhow? I caught the joker on the draw, and it just
filled my hand—three aces and a pair of sixes. Don’t an ace-full beat a
king-full in that desolate Atlantic coast region you hail from?’

"’You mean you call the joker an ace?’ said I, the thing beginning to
dawn upon me.

"The three fellows gazed at me as if they were trying to find out if I
was drunk or not.

"’Why, do you mean to say,’ said the man I had played with, ’that you
don’t know that in poker the joker is any old thing you choose to make
it—that, when you get it either on the deal or on the draw, you can call
it anything you want to call it to eke out a pair, flush, full house or
anything else? Tell you what, old man, you need sleep. You’ve been
working too hard. Turn in and have a long night of it.’

"I couldn’t help but laugh.

"’Well,’ said I, ’you people may call this joker-jiggling poker, but
somehow or another it suggests tag and I-spy and little girls singing
"London Bridge is falling down" to me. Why in the devil don’t you play
poker with a pinochle deck and be done with it? Come on, and we’ll build
card houses, or what’s the matter with playing casino for chalk or
pin-wheels?’

"’Why, don’t you benighted people back East use the joker?’

"’Yes,’ said I, ’we do. We always give the joker in a new deck to babies
in arms to cut their teeth on.’

"Another queer kink in the slope game of draw is that straights don’t
go. I’ve been catching occasional pat straights and drawing to ’em all
my life, and I think the straight is one of the prettiest plays in
poker. In playing straights, if the chap across the table draws one
card, you’ve got the fun of trying to figure out whether he’s drawing to
a couple of pairs or bobbing to a straight or a flush, and it’s
interesting work. If he stands pat, it’s up to you to determine by the
mind-reading process whether he’s simply bluffing or actually has a pat
straight or full hand or flush in his paws.

"Well, out on the coast they’ve heard occasional rumors of such things
as straights being played somewhere or another in the game of draw, but
you won’t meet one coast man in a hundred that knows precisely what the
straight consists of and what the chances are of a man’s getting a pat
straight or of filling a one-ended or double-ended straight. As for
playing straights, they’ve never even dreamed of such an absurdity. I
found that out in the second game of draw I got into out there.

"It was in Portland, and another four-handed game, the other three
fellows being business men also. We played along for a while without my
running into any snags sticking out of the coast game, and then I got on
the deal four cards that had in them the making of a corking good
straight, capable of being filled at either end, from nine up to queen,
so that either an eight or a king on the draw would have fixed me all
right. I decided to draw to it just for luck, although all three of the
fellows were in and had stood a rise before the draw. When I caught my
king I was glad I had decided to draw to my straight. A king-high
straight is a pretty good mess of cards in any man’s game of draw as we
know draw back in these parts.

"There was a heap of betting on that round, and, of course, with that
clipper-built straight of mine, I wasn’t going to let any of ’em put it
on me. I met every raise and stuck so persistently and confidently that
the whole three of them began to regard me as the main guy so far as
that deal was concerned and look a bit afraid of me. The last time I
raised it they kind o’ exchanged looks, and the man at my left called
me. The other two men followed suit, and there was a general laying down
of hands. The man at my left had three eights, the fellow next to him
aces up on treys, and the man at my right three sixes. I projected my
right arm to sweep in the good-sized pot after spreading out my
king-high straight.

"’Hold up, there!’ they all yelled at me at once. 'What’s all this? What
are you trying to do—hypnotize us?’ And the man who had laid down his
three eights made a reach for the pot.

"It was now my turn to think the whole three of 'em looney.

"’Is there so much smoke in here,’ said I, ’that you three people can’t
perceive that I’ve got a king-high straight?’

"’Straight?’ said the man with the three eights. 'Straight be damned!
You’ve got one king up on nothing. How old are you, anyhow—seven?
Straight? Listen to him!’ And the three of ’em gave the hoarse hoot in
chorus. I asked ’em to get around me and pinch me, because I wanted to
find out if I was dreaming or not, but they were too busy leaning back
in their chairs and roaring like so many wild asses of the woods to pay
any attention to me. That’s what I got for not inquiring beforehand into
the kind of draw I stacked up against in Portland.

"The next poker knock I got was down in Santa Barbara. I got into a game
of draw with three hotel clerks, all good fellows, but all addicted to
the nursery poker they play out there, and again I forgot to nail ’em up
against the wall and make ’em exude information about the kind of game
they purposed playing. We got along all right for an hour or so, and at
the end of the time I was comfortably well ahead of the game. It kind o’
tickled me, too, when I caught the joker on the draw three or four times
and beat ’em out on their own game— which is a silly game, and about as
brainy as bean-bag, all the same. I also kept away from my inclination
to draw to straights, and, having made this much progress, I really
didn’t think I was in for any more rude and costly surprises in the
game. That’s where I did the leap-year figuring.

"I gave myself a neat mess of clubs—four of them—with the ace for a
capstone. I have always been lucky in bobbing to flushes, and this
looked good. Two of the other fellows drew two cards each, and the other
man asked for one. I gave myself another club, and tried to look gloomy
and depressed. An ace-high flush has always been good enough for me on
this side of the continent, and I bet it for all it was worth. The three
hotel clerks evidently thought they were pretty well fixed, too, and,
although there was nothing frantic about the betting, it was nice and
smooth and even, and the pot grew in a way that suited me down to the
ground. When it got so large on five-dollar raises as we thought it
ought to be there was a general suggestion for a call and a show-down.
Two of my fellow players had threes, small ones, and the other two pairs
that we wouldn’t stay with very long back in this neck of the woods.
Well, I flashed my ace-high flush of clubs on them, and was just about
to say something about easy money when the man with the best threes
scooped in the pot.

"’Must have left your specs at home, my boy,’ said I, thinking he was
only fooling. ’Pass that pile over.’

"’For why?’ said he.

"Then I looked him over and saw that he was serious.

"’For why?’ I repeated. ’Well, the instructors at whose feet I sat to
learn what is learnable about the game of draw poker always taught me to
believe that a flush is better than threes.’

"’Yes,’ said he, ’but didn’t you draw a card?’

"’What the devil difference does that make?’ I inquired.

"’Oh,’ said he patronizingly, ’I see you’re a bit new at the game. You
see, you can’t draw to flushes. You’ve got to hold ’em pat.’

"Well, that was the worst jab I had yet received, but I had to stand for
it, on the ’do-as-the-Romans-do’ principle.

"In San Diego I got into a game with some fellows who were so warm that
they wouldn’t play anything but jack-pots. At the start-off of the
game—the first hand—none of the four of us could open it. It went around
three times, and on the fourth deal I caught a pair of queens. Two of
the other fellows stayed. I caught another queen, and played the hand
for all it was worth. When I was called I showed down my hand, and had
’em both beat.

"’Foul hand,’ said they. ’You didn’t have openers,’ and they looked at
me suspiciously.

"’The dickens you say!’ said I. ’I went in with a pair of queens and
caught another one—there they are.’

"’But you needed aces,’ said they, all at once. ’It went around four
times, and jack-pots are progressive, of course. D’ye mean to say you
didn’t know that? Sorry, old man, that we’ll have to split the pot.’

"’Are they always progressive out here?’ I asked.

"’Always,’ they answered, and that settled it. The pot was split."




THE PROPER TIME TO GET "COLD FEET."


_Few Gamblers Perceive "the Psychological Moment" For Quitting Play and
                            Retiring Rich._

An old man whose mind is still alert, and the movements of whose tall,
somewhat stooped body are as free and spry as those of many a man fifty
years his junior, is Cole Martin, once the most famous faro dealer in
this country. He slipped the cards out of the box for the statesmen with
a penchant for gaming who lived in Washington fifty, forty, and thirty
years ago, when it was deemed no disgrace for the strong men of the land
to try an occasional buck at the tiger, openly and above board. Martin
is now verging upon 80 years of age, and even to the present generation
of Washingtonians his white-bearded countenance is very familiar. His
age does not tell upon him, and his commerce among men is about as wide
now, he says, as it was back in the fifties. He had a great deal of
money at one time in his career, but most of it went by the board. He
had the caution to purchase an annuity for himself a good many years
ago, and upon this he lives comfortably. He has passed most of his life
in Washington, but before and after the war of the rebellion he had
adventures in many parts of the United States where gaming was at its
highest. He is a mine of curious, first-hand information about the
statesmen-gamesters who were great figures in the national life of the
country before the war, and the local newspaper have published many of
his reminiscences of this sort. He is not garrulous, but once he gets
into his stride and the company is congenial he talks well and
entertainingly. He was speaking recently of the case of the well-known
young American turf plunger who, after having beaten the English racing
game to the tune of $150,000 a few weeks ago, waded in so recklessly
that, only a short time later, he quit $90,000 to the bad.

"Another example of the chance taker who has not mastered the fine
science of quitting," was his way of summing it up. "That seems to be
the most difficult point in the gambling business—to know just the right
time to quit. Few men master it. I never did, myself. I wish I had. Any
fool can go on playing when he is away ahead of his game, but it takes a
man of unusual strength of character, perception and foresight to knock
off when, after riding a high tide, he notices that it begins to ebb.
The scientists, I believe, talk of a ’psychological moment.’ I don’t
know of any business in life in which the psychological moment plays a
greater part than it does in gambling. Most of this country’s old-time
gamesters have died, as you know, very poor, or, worse,
poverty-stricken. I never hear of the death of one of them leaving not
enough money behind to have his body put into the ground that I don’t
recall the time when he had tens or hundreds of thousands. The gambler
by profession has many a psychological moment in the course of his
career, but he rarely takes advantages of them. He goes on dabbling at a
percentage that his common-sense tells him is against him, and that he
has only temporarily beaten, and after a while he finds himself broke;
then he asks himself remorsefully why he didn’t break off when he was on
top of the wave. I have known a few professional gamblers who knew just
when to quit. Some of them are still alive, old men like myself, and
they are well fixed. Those of them who are dead left good sums of money
behind them.

"I once saw George Plantagenet, one of the best known of the New Orleans
gamblers before the war, win $60,000 in an afternoon’s play at faro.
This was in Memphis. He cashed in and left the bank. After supper he
returned with all of the money and he began to buck the king. He played
it open every time and the king lost eight straight times in two deals.
That cost Plantagenet $20,000 of his winnings. The lid had been taken
off the game for him. When the dealer pulled out the eighth straight
losing king Plantagenet cashed in. He was frank enough to admit that he
had cold feet.

"’While freely acknowledging that I am more or less of a d—d fool,’ he
said coolly, ’I strive for the reputation of knowing when I’ve got
enough, even of a good thing. I quit. This is just my time to quit. If
the box were only depleting me gradually but surely I don’t doubt that
I’d go until I was all up. But I can see legible handwriting on the wall
from as considerable a distance as my neighbors, and when I’m on top, as
I am now, well and comfortably, and eight straight kings range
themselves against me on the left hand side of the layout, that’s the
kind of a signal I’m waiting for, and I pass. I’ll bet any man on the
side, just for a flyer, $5,000 that the next king out of the box wins,
but no more faro.

"Frank Wooton, the proprietor of the layout, was standing by when
Plantagenet made this little talk.

"’You are wise in your generation, George,’ said he. 'Now, it is about a
10 to 1 shot against the king losing again. Consequently you can afford
to give me at least 2 to 1 on that proposition. I’ll bet you $2,500 to
$5,000 that the king does lose the next time out.’

"’Taken,’ said Plantagenet, covering Wooton’s money, and the crowd
gathered round to watch the dealer riffle the cards. The box was fully
half out before a king showed, and it showed on the losing side—nine
straight. Wooton pulled down the side bet.

"’Which I may remark,’ said Plantagenet with the greatest coolness,
’that this ninth consecutive lose of the king simply confirms and makes
good the hunch I had to quit when it lost the eighth time. But I will go
a bit further to prove that my inspiration to quit is a proper and
sensible one. I will bet you $1,000 that I can buck your bank now with
dummy chips representing all of my winnings and the roll I originally
started with, and that, although I shall play as carefully and as
cautiously and as earnestly as I would did the dummy chips really
represent money, I shall lose every stack within two hours.’

"Plantagenet and Wooton were old friends, and the latter knew that
Plantagenet would try to win with the dummy chips even though he would
be $1,000 loser if he did.

"’Go ahead and prove your case,’ said Wooton, and a dealer who was off
duty was called upon to deal. Plantagenet kept cases himself and played
his own particular system with all manner of care and effort. Wooton
stood by and saw that Plantagenet was playing his regular game.
Plantagenet’s luck had deserted him, and he lost two bets out of every
three. It seemed impossible for him to get down right, and he lost
steadily. He had played in his last stack in an hour and forty minutes
and Wooton hand him the $1,000.

"’That’s the way it would have been had I been playing with money,’ said
Plantagenet, and Wooton agreed with him. Plantagenet was one of the men
who knew when to quit, and when he died, with his grandchildren around
him, in the early seventies, he left more than $500,000 to be
distributed among his heirs.

"Edmund Baker of Louisville, who was not a professional gambler, but who
outdid most of the famous professional gamblers of the South in the late
fifties in the heaviness of his play when he felt in a winning humor,
was another man who knew when to quit. I saw him win $32,000 in one
night at bank in the rooms of the old Crescent City Club. Then he curled
up all of a sudden and cashed in. He wasn’t a quitter in the ungenerous
sense, but he used to say that the little angel, supposed by the sailors
to sit aloft and watch out for Jack Tar, had a habit of informing him,
when he was bucking another man’s game, just the proper time to pass it
up and quit. It was a matter of pure hunch with him. On this occasion
Joe Randolph, a heavy player from Virginia, twitted Baker a bit for not
pressing his luck—for quitting when he seemed to be winning four bets
out of five.

"’All right, Randolph,’ said Baker after he had cashed in. ’I’ll let you
make five $10 bets in my behalf on the deal now running and I’ll bet you
an even $2,000 that I (or you) lose four out of the five; this, just to
show you that my intuition about the proper time to lay off is good.’

"Randolph took that bet, which was a good one, with more than an even
chance in his favor, and he lost, for every one of the five bets lost.
Baker would quit when he was loser just as suddenly as he would when he
was away ahead of the game. I saw him lose over $3,000 in a four-handed
poker game with friends in one of the parlors of the old St. Charles
Hotel between the hours of 6 and 9 o’clock one evening. He had
practically an unlimited amount of money at his disposal, considering
the size of the game—$200 limit—but he yawned and pushed his chair back
with the simple statement that it wasn’t his night. The next night he
lost $2,000 more to the same three friends, and again he resumed his
seat. On the following night he was $4,000 loser after four hours’ play,
but he gave no sign of quitting.

"’Isn’t it pretty near time for you to stretch your arms and forsake us
again, Baker?’ asked one of his friends in the game, jokingly.

"’No,’ said Baker, ’I’m going to stay along to-night. I’ll begin to win
soon, and then you can all stand by.’

"He began to win on the very next deal and at 2 o’clock in the morning
he had not only retrieved his losses on the week’s play, but he had all
the money in the crowd. Baker was possessed of a species of intuition
that was something extraordinary. I don’t know what else to call it but
intuition. I never saw him take a daring chance that he did not win out
on it—chances that no professional gambler would dream of taking, and
diametrically opposed to all of the rules of percentage in games of
hazard. One night he walked into ’Don’ Haskell’s Madrid Club in St.
Louis—this was in the fall of ’59—and stood and watched a few deals out
of the box at the $500-limit faro table. Then he reached over and bought
five yellow—$100—chips from the dealer. He put them all on the ace and
coppered the card. The ace lost, and the dealer put five yellow chips on
the top of the original five on the ace, and waited for Baker to haul
them down. Baker absent-mindedly made no move, to take the chips until
the dealer reminded him of them.

"’Let them stand, with the ace coppered,’ said Baker.

"’But it’s $500 limit, Mr. Baker,’ said the dealer.

"’Let it stand, Jack,’ said ’Don’ Haskell, coming up behind Jack and
addressing the dealer. ’Let it stand as long as Mr. Baker wants to make
play with the ace coppered, and we’ll see if we can’t commit assault and
battery on his "intuition."’

"Baker nodded good-naturedly to Haskell and then waited for the turns on
the ace. The ace was only half a dozen cards below, and it lost. The
dealer ranged ten more yellows beside Baker’s pile.

"’Let them stand, ace coppered,’ said Baker, scanning the cases for a
few deals back carelessly.

"’Don’ Haskell nodded in the affirmative to the dealer and the other
players at the table neglected to put any bets down in their interest in
Baker’s peculiar play. There was only one more ace left in the box and
it came out a loser. The dealer stacked up twenty more yellows beside
Baker’s pile—$4000—and he and the proprietor waited for Baker to haul
them down. Baker leaned back and lit a cigar, leaving the $4000 in
yellows to stand.

"’I’ll leave them there, with the ace coppered, if you’re willing,
"Don,"’ he said quietly to Haskell.

"’The longer the better,’ said Haskell, and the dealer began to slip
them out. The first ace was way down in the center of the box, and
Haskell looked a bit chagrined when it came out a loser.

"’Eight thousand, eh?’ he said, looking over the stack of yellows on the
coppered ace. ’One more whirl at it, Baker—that’ll be about all I can
stand to-night if you take it down.’

"The ace came out on the losing side again—a thing that no professional
gambler would have bet on had he been offered 5 to 1 on the
proposition—and Baker cashed in $16,000. He would have let it run again
had Haskell been able to stand it, but the ’Don’ had enough. Baker stood
by and watched the ace come out a loser twice again and then he put $500
on it to win. It won and he took the boat for New Orleans with $16,500
of Haskell’s money. Three months later, when Frank Caxton, Ned Ripley
and Monk Terhune, a well-known New Orleans trio of tiger buckers, broke
the Madrid Club’s bank roll wide open, to the tune of $100,000, Baker
was the man who started Haskell in business again.

"When I was dealing heavy games myself I used often to have a sudden
feeling that it was time for some strong bucker on the other side of the
table to cash in and quit, but of course it was no part of my business
to make any such suggestions. I was dealing a game once in Washington,
in the winter of ’66, when the outcast son of a rich tobacco man of
Richmond came along and whacked my box for $12,000 in a single night’s
play at $200 limit. I knew the young fellow pretty well, and I knew that
since his father had run him out of Richmond he had had more than his
share of hard luck. In fact, he had often been hungry, and I had often
given him a $5 or $10 bill, being pretty flush myself just then. He had
started in on my box with a shoestring—where he got it I don’t know—and,
as I say, he got me to the tune of $12,000 before I turned the box on
him for the night. The man in whose interest I was dealing was very
wealthy and a generous man. He knew the young chap’s father. He came to
me after the young man had left with his winnings and said:

"’You’d better hunt up that boy and tell him that he’d better not play
any more. He’s had his run of luck, and he’s got enough to give himself
a start. I don’t want the money back. If he handles it right it’ll do
him more good than it would me. Just try to pound a bit of sense into
the lads’ head.’

"That was a pretty square talk to come from the throat of a man whose
bank had been raided. I hunted the young fellow up that morning and told
him about it. He was full of hifalutin’ talk about wanting to give the
proprietor of the bank a chance and all that sort of thing.

"’He can take care of himself,’ said I to the boy. ’He knows your
father, and I dare say he’s clipped your father’s bank roll for a good
deal more than $12,000 on occasions when your dad has visited Washington
and gone against the bank. Better array yourself in purple and fine
linen, keep sober, and go back to the Governor in Richmond with a high
head and a proper countenance. That’ll be better than walking into
Richmond in need of a Russian bath.’

"The fever was on the boy, though, and he couldn’t keep his promise to
me to stop. He came in that night, and in half an hour’s play he ran his
$12,000 up to $15,000. I kicked him under the table then, as a sort of
final warning. He paid no attention to me, though. Then he began to
lose, and in three hours he was flat broke. He went out with a wild
light in his eye, and the next morning he was found dead in his little
boarding-house room, with a bullet in his brain.

"It may be true, in the ordinary sense, that Providence hates a quitter,
but that doesn’t apply to gambling. The knowledge of when to get cold
feet, and the gentle art of doing the same, are valuable assets for any
man who tries to buck another man’s game."




CATO WAS JUST BOUND TO PLAY POKER.


   _And They Got Him the Whole Length of the Missouri, Until He Went
                   Against Another Game and Won Out._

"A man hunting for poker trouble could get a-plenty of it on the Big
Muddy stern-wheelers around the latter sixties and the early seventies,"
said Joe Reilly of Sioux City. "There weren’t many regular poker sharks
working the Missouri River boats in those days like there were on the
Mississippi steamers, but just the same the men that traveled on those
weather-boarded, lop-sided old sand-bar wagons on the Big Muddy all knew
how to play poker some, I’m a-telling you. Cato Bullman found this out
when he went up against a whole lot of different men’s games on the old
’Gen. W. T. Sherman’ in 1872.

"Bullman was pardners with Nate Stillwater in running a big general
store in Yankton, and both of ’em were making a mint of money at the
time I’m going to tell you about. They’d ha’ made more, I guess, if
Stillwater hadn’t drank too much whisky and Bullman hadn’t played too
much poker. Now, all in all, Stillwater handled his whisky pretty well,
and at such times as he found it was getting a half-Nelson on him he’d
leave it off for a spell and attend to business, so that his end of the
dissipation of the firm of Stillwater & Bullman wasn’t half as bad as
Cato’s. Cato loved to play poker so much that he’d knock right off in
the middle of selling a bill of goods to a gang of freighters to go off
somewheres and sit in a game. Now, this wouldn’t have been so bad, even
if it was darned poor business policy, if Cato ever won. But he never
did. He had no license ever to touch a pack of cards. In the first
place, he was a yap at cards, and any American kid that knew how to play
old maid could have hopped out of the back of a prairie schooner and
beaten Cato out of his boots at the game for money, marbles or chalk. In
the second place, Cato was a natural born hoodoo. If he was drawing to
three aces, and the other fellow was taking five cards, the other
fellow’d beat Cato out and have plenty to space. So that it was just
about up to Cato to holler murder and take to the brush whenever anybody
flashed a pack of the pasteboards on him. But he didn’t see it this way.
He went right on playing poker and getting soaked for his share of the
profits of the firm. Cato appeared to be just stone-blind to the fact
that the foxy people that didn’t do much of anything else around Yankton
except to play cards were in a fair way to fix themselves with meal
tickets for life at his expense, and as he was pretty near seven foot
high and built in proportion, none of us felt like trying to kick any
sense into his fool head.

"Anyhow, in the summer of ’72 Bullman started down the river on the old
’Gen. W. T. Sherman’ for St. Louis to buy goods. He had $10,000 in
greenbacks along with him. Before he went aboard the boat Stillwater,
who wasn’t much more’n five foot high, ranged himself alongside Cato’s
big carcass, and says he:

"’Cato, this here v’yage you’re about to embark on is a business trip
and nothin’ else. It ain’t no jamboree and it ain’t no poker picnic.
There’s some smooth people gits aboard these here mud ploughs down below
at the landings, and in their hands you’d be nothin’ but a great big
moon-eyed jayhawker, which you are. So throughout this here journey
you’d best git ’way up on top o’ the boat and sit on a pile o’ planks
just abaft the pilot-house and smoke your pipe. You’re not to play no
poker at all, you hear me? When you git stuck on a sand-bar you can fish
over the side for bullhead catfish, but you don’t play no poker. If,
when you git back here, I hear that you’ve been playing poker, I’ll
mangle you up a heap; now you hear me a-talkin’.’

"Cato reached down, picked up his partner by the scruff of the neck, and
held him out at arm’s length.

"’I ain’t a-goin’ to play no poker, old man,’ says he to Stillwater.
’Won’t touch no cards at all till I git back. Kind o’ lost my knack at
the cards lately, anyhow,’ as if he ever had any knack at ’em. ’And you
want to let the red-eye alone while I’m gone, too,’ Cato finished, and
then set his little partner down. Then Cato went aboard the boat. As I
was going along down to St. Louis myself, Stillwater calls me aside and
says to me:

"’Jest keep an eye on that big galoot on the way down, and if he gits
restless and shows an inclination to get tangled up with a poker deck,
jest bat him over the head with a capstan bar.’

"But I wasn’t making any rash promises like that. Well, Cato was all
right the first day out, and he followed his pardner’s instructions and
sat around on deck smoking his corn-cob pipe and feeling his big wallet
occasionally. He kept as far away as possible from the little deck-house
where a game was started going before the boat pushed out into the
stream, but the rattle of the chips was bound to reach his ears
occasionally. On the second day some stockmen got aboard that Cato knew,
and Cato took a few drinks with ’em. Then they invited Cato into a
little game. Cato looked at me kind o’ guilty like, and then shook
himself together like a man does that says to himself, ’It’s nobody’s
danged business but my own.’ So he sits into the game with the stockmen.
They were only going down a few landings, and when they got off they had
$2000 of Cato’s money. I never in my life before or since saw such
hoodoo luck as Cato had in that game with those stockmen. He didn’t get
a pair more’n once in a hundred hands, and if he did get a pair and
happened to better it in the draw he’d give a hoot that ’ud wake up the
owls ashore and then bet like an Ogallala Sioux with four aces and a
dirk knife. It was just simply painful to watch Cato in that game, and
no mistake. When the stockmen got off some of them actually looked so
sorry for Cato that I kind o’ thought they’d offer to give him his money
back. But they didn’t.

"’I’m kind o’ out o’ luck lately,’ says Cato to me after the stockmen
had got off with his $2000, ’and I b’lieve I’ll just draw in now and
wait for a hunch. No good buckin’ agin’ a streak o’ bad luck, is there?’

"Well, I told him that if my 10-year-old boy down in Sioux City wasn’t
able to play poker any better than he, Cato, could before he put on long
trousers and suspenders I’d send him up to a lumber camp until he became
of age. But Cato didn’t pay any attention to me, and when an awkward,
overworked-looking man, dressed like a farmer, got aboard a couple of
landings below he struck up an acquaintance with him. This farmer-like
looking man had a pretty keen pair of eyes in his head, as I noticed,
and he had besides that yokelly way of finding out about other people’s
business. So it didn’t take him long to dig it out of Cato that Cato was
going down to St. Louis to buy a stock of goods. The three of us were
sitting on the hind rail, whittling, when this farmer-like looking man
turns to Cato and asks him:

"’Ever play key-ards?’

"Cato looked at me again and hesitated.

"’Oh, wunct in a while,’ says he, finally, and in a pair of minutes they
were in the middle of a poker game. The stranger asked me to sit in, of
course, but I could see that he wasn’t over-anxious to have me in the
game, and I never played poker on steamboats, stern-wheel or side-wheel,
anyhow.

"Cato’s hoodoo luck followed him right along in his game with the
overworked-looking man, who seemed to me to have considerable of a job
covering up a natural sort of deftness he had in handling a pack. The
two played for three or four hours, the stranger announcing occasionally
that he was going to get off at the next landing, so’s to screen himself
from the inference that he was getting cold feet, probably. He was about
$1000 ahead of Cato’s game when the boat was nearing his landing.

"’Hev to make it a jackpot naow,’ said he, when the old stern-wheeler
began to wheeze and snort a little preparatory to stopping at the
landing.

"He dealt the jackpot hand himself and each man had $100 in the center
of the table. It was to be sweetened for $100 each time the deal passed.
But it didn’t pass. Cato opened the pot for $100 and his Reuben-looking
opponent stayed. The betting swayed back and forth until each man had
$1000 up, and then the farmer-like looking man called Cato. Cato had
three eights. The other man had three tens. The other man stuffed the
bills from the center of the table into his overalls, shook Cato quite
effusively by the hand, and went ashore.

"’Got enough?’ says I to Cato when the old sandbar-bucker was once again
under way.

"’Say,’ says he to me, ’ye can’t never jedge a man by his looks, can ye?
That man knows a hull heap more’n you’d think, don’t he?’

"’Got enough, Cato?’ I repeats, for I wanted to pin him to the question
in hand.

"’Well, I shorely am out o’ luck, and no mistake,’ was as far as he
would commit himself.

"The next day a man who looked like members of Congress out my way used
to look got aboard. He was dress in a long black broadcloth coat and
wore a big black slouch hat, and he carried himself like a man that
amounted to a good deal. He was amiable in his manners, though, and he
hadn’t been aboard more’n half an hour before he happened to fall into
talk with Cato. Cato was a little sore about the loss of his $4,000, but
this legislator-like looking man was so entertaining and sprung so a lot
of good stories over the jug of good stuff which Cato brought out of his
stateroom that Cato appeared to forget his troubles for the time.

"’Monotonous work, this steamboat traveling, isn’t it?’ says the
statesmanlike-looking man to Cato after a while. ’I’ve only four hours
traveling to do, and yet I’ve been dreading it for a week. What do you
say to a little game of dime-ante. You play, of course?’

"Cato scratched his chin.

"’Durned if b’lieve I can any more," said he ruefully, and then, like
the innocent big dogan that he was, he tells his new friend how he has
already lost $4,000 on the trip down, and that he feels like hanging on
to his remaining $6,000.

"’Oh, but only a little dime-ante game, you know,’ says the man who
looked like a member of Congress, and his eyes opened up a bit, I
noticed, at the mention of the $6,000.

"’O. K.,’ says Cato. ’Jest to pass the time,’ and down they sat. I was
asked in, but I told the statesmanlike-looking man that I had left my
specs up in Yankton and therefore couldn’t see the hands well enough to
play. Well, the dime-ante and the dollar limit that they started in at
lasted just until Cato got a whopping big hand, which happened to be
given to him by the man that looked like an M. C.

"’Say,’ says Cato then, looking a heap excited, ’s’posin’ we jest take
the limit off’n this here game, anyhow, fur a little while?’

"’Why, certainly,’ says his opponent genially, and Cato walks right in
and wins $500 clean on that hand of his. He gives me a look out o’ the
tail of his eye that says, ’Well, what do you think of me now,’ and the
game goes on.

"Well, the M. C.-looking man begins to win quite a good deal then, and
he, like the farmer-looking man, brought the game to a jackpot finish as
the boat approached his getting-off place.

"’Fur how much?’ inquired Cato, who was about $1,000 out already.

"’Oh, about $50 and $50 sweeteners,’ said the man across the table.

"’No, we won’t, either,’ says Cato. ’We’ll each put in $1,000, an’ no
sweeteners. That’s jest as good fur you as ’tis fur me.’

"’Exactly,’ says the distinguished looking man playing with him, and
Cato dealt the hands. Neither man had openers. Then the other man dealt
’em. Cato opened it on jacks up on treys, and caught another jack in the
draw. The boat snorted and wheezed preparatory to being made fast. Cato
bet a flat $1,000 on his jack full, and the M. C.-looking man, looking
kind o’ impatient to get ashore, win or lose, calls him. Cato lays down
his jack full with a grin at me—and says his friends across the table:

"’You do indeed, my friend, appear to labor under a blanket of
ill-fortune,’ and he spreads out his four nines and gathers in the pot.
Then he hurries ashore, after shaking the crestfallen Cato warmly by the
hand.

"’Got $3,000 left now, haven’t you, Cato?’ says I then, for it began to
look to me as if word had been passed down the whole length of the
Missouri River that Cato Bullman was traveling on one of its steamboats
with money. ’Better let me keep that $3,000 for you.’

"’No, I’m durned if I do,’ says Cato. ’Might as well lose it all now,
devil take it,’ and he gnawed on his fingernails, thinking about what
kind of a story he’d put up to his partner, I guess, when he got back to
Yankton broke.

"Well, Cato did lose it all, or close on to all of it. He foregathered
with a man that got aboard at Omaha, and said he was a civil engineer
for the Union Pacific Railroad. The civil engineer got $1,800 of Cato’s
greenbacks, and then got off. Twenty miles below Omaha, at a little
handing, a gappy looking hog raiser that Cato had met before climbed
over the rail, and Cato thought he saw a chance to recoup his drooping
fortunes. The hog raiser relieved Cato of $1,000, and had an important
engagement to look at some fancy hogs at the next stop. This left Cato
with $200.

"’Convinced that you’re a damphool yet, Cato?’ says I.

"’Dang’d if I don’t begin b’lieve I am,’ he owns up.

"’How about those goods you were going to buy in St. Louis?’ I asked
him.

"’I dunno,’ he said, mournful like.

"Well, when we got to Leavenworth, Kan., the wheezy old Sherman tied up
for twenty-four hours for repairs to the machinery. Cato was pretty
gloomy. We went ashore and put up at the old Planters’ House. On the
night we struck Leavenworth I walked Cato around to sort o’ relieve his
mind. We were strolling down Shawnee street when we both saw a pretty
much lighted up place into which a lot of well-gotten up men were going.
When we came up to the place we heard the rattle of the chips and click
of the marble and the choppy talk of the keno men, and then we saw that
it was Col. Jennison’s famous Bon Ton gambling joint, running wide open
and full blast. Cato made for the door. I grabbed him by the sleeve.

"’Come out o’ that,’ says I. ’You’ve only got $200, which won’t more’n
get you back to Yankton. Haven’t you been enough of an idiot already?’

"’I got a hunch,’ says Cato, releasing himself from me and starting
again for the door.

"’Hunch!’ says I, but he was already inside.

"Well, Cato goes up to the faro table where the big men of the town seem
to be playing bank, and says I to myself, ’Joe, you’ll have to dig up to
send this crazy man back to his pardner in Yankton.’

"Cato bought $200 worth of chips, tapping himself, and began. Gentlemen,
he couldn’t lose. He scattered his chips over every card on the table,
and he couldn’t lose. He won eight bets out of ten. He let his money lie
on cards four times over, and won every time. He didn’t use a copper,
but played every card wide open. There didn’t seem to be a split in the
box for Cato. In less than twenty minutes he had won over $3,000. There
was a $500 limit on the game. Cato asked to have it removed. When the
limit was taken off, Cato made three $1,000 bets running, and won every
one of them. Then he came off his perch and got down to $200 bets again,
playing ’em like a veteran, and just simply unable to lose, gentlemen.
The rest of the men at the table quit playing just to watch Cato. Once
in a while Cato’d play the high card, just to see if his luck was
holding. The high card came out every time he did it. They switched the
dealer three times. They switched the lookout half a dozen times. They
tried different boxes. They changed tables. They did everything. But,
gentlemen, Cato Bullman was playing faro, and he couldn’t lose. I was
proud of the big duffer. In an hour he was $18,000 ahead of Col.
Jennison’s bank. They sent across the way to get Col. Jennison who was
playing a quiet little game of poker in the Star of the West saloon.
Col. Jennison came over to the Bon Ton and sat down to handle the box
for Cato himself. Cato soaked Col. Jennison every bit as hard as he had
soaked all of Col. Jennison’s dealers. Col. Jennison was game, but, when
at the end of three hours, Cato was still going right ahead winning like
a cyclone, he turned the box over with this little remark:

"’Gentlemen, the game is closed for the night.’

"When Cato cashed in he had just $35,200. I took him by the arm and
walked him down to the hotel and got him into his room. Cato went to the
basin to wash his hands. When he turned around to me again he looked
into the barrels of both my guns.

"’Cato,’ says I, ’I’m sorry, but I’ll just trouble you to hand over
every cent of that $35,200 you’ve got, right away now, darned quick, or
I’ll blow the whole top of your head off.’

"Cato didn’t demur a little bit. He plunked the money down—most of it
was in $1,000 and $500 bills—on the table.

"’I don’t suppose I’ve got enough sense to pack it around, fur a fac’,’
said he.

"When we got to St. Louis I handed Cato $10,000 to buy his goods with,
and expressed the $23,200 to his address in Yankton.

"’Well,’ said his little pardner, Stillwater, when Cato got back to
Yankton, ’s’long as you won, you big clod-hopper, I don’t s’pose I need
to mangle you up none. But if you had lost!’"




FINISH OF AN EDUCATED RED MAN.


_He Was Too Handy with the Pasteboards, Wherefore He Arrived Prematurely
                    in the "Happy Hunting Grounds."_

"It happens more or less frequently," said a traveling Inspector of
Indian Agencies, "that an educated buck Indian degenerates in the long
run into a bad proposition. I’m thinking particularly of an educated
Oregon Indian, about a three-quarter blood, who got the big-head so bad
after he had been polished off mentally back this way that he never
mixed up with his people when he returned from the East. He was a
Umatilla. He was first sent to Carlisle, and when he had finished there
he was passed on to Johns Hopkins, in Baltimore, to take the law course
there. It was in view that he was to become the attorney for his tribe
upon the conclusion of his Blackstone-thumbing. He squeezed through the
law at Johns Hopkins, and then he was told of the nice fat thing that
awaited him out among his own people. He turned the proposition down
cold. He said flatly that he had no intention whatever of mixing up with
his own bunch at all any more. He likewise remarked that he knew his
gait, and that he intended to follow it.

"A couple of months after he quit Baltimore he turned up at The Dalles
in Western Oregon and settled down to the career of a short poker
player. Where he had picked up the game it would be hard to say; but he
certainly was a daisy at it. There wasn’t a kink in the game that he
didn’t have the hang of. Now, The Dalles isn’t any bad man’s camp; it is
a very beautiful health resort in the Cascade Mountains, on the south
bank of the Columbia River; there wasn’t a hard character in the place
until this educated buck established his headquarters there; and it
suited his game to a T. He made it his business to nail young tourists
who didn’t have any more sense than to sit into a poker game with a
stranger, much less an Indian, and an educated Indian at that; and he
just stripped them in sets of fours for several years. He was a
splendid-looking buck and he dressed as men dress who’ve got the money
to tog themselves out right back this way. When he was engaged in the
act of getting a new victim he knew how to throw much cordiality and
some grace into his manners; but ordinarily he was a sulky, morose, bad
Indian. ’Way down in the deeps of him he was a rank coward, for he never
tried to twist his tentacles about a man who he thought would make a
stand, much less a scrap, upon discovering that he was being done; he
always picked out palpable lily-livers who looked, to his shrewd eye, as
if they would stand for anything rather than mix it up with him.

"It did not take the square people of The Dalles long to get next to the
fact that this educated Indian, who had coolly taken up his abode among
them, was a cheat and a swindler, and that his sole occupation consisted
in fleecing pulp-headed young tourists. They talked a great deal of
giving him the razzle-dazzle and chasing him out, but somehow or other
this suggestion never came to a head. The men at The Dalles who had the
interest of the place at heart would point the swellerino buck out to
young strangers who looked as if they might be likely victims of the
Indian short-card fleecer, and tell the young goslings just where and
how the buck stood. It may sound incredible, but even after being warned
in this fashion a whole lot of the young addlepates fell into the buck’s
mesh and got themselves done to a proper turn by him. They were able to
take care of themselves, they would reply chestily to their warners,
and, just to prove it, they’d take a hack at the Indian’s game. When
they got through they’d be smoking punk tobacco in pipes while the
Indian would be blowing the smoke of perfectos in their faces, and
they’d stand for their craggy end of it without a whistle. The buck was
6 feet 3 inches high and weighed 235 pounds, and he looked like a
macerator from the high ridges. So he was never called by any of his
Dalles victims, even when they knew the details of how they’d been
plucked. One poor little devil of a rich man’s son from Omaha whimpered
one night when the Indian had removed about $800 from him by dealing
from both ends and the middle of the deck, and he said to the buck
piteously:

"’I just hope you’ve played fair, that’s all.’

"The Indian reached over and struck the pollywog with all of his force
on both sides of the face with his two open palms, leaving the blood-red
welt marks of his fingers on the lamb’s fair cheeks. The whining victim
drilled for his life up the hotel stairs to his room, and the Indian
looked after him sardonically. There wasn’t a man about that didn’t know
that the Indian had scandalously cheated the lad, but not a one of them
said a word. There was a keen-eyed, big-framed, prematurely gray-haired
man, a stranger, standing at the hotel desk reading a just-arrived
letter, when the thing happened. His face flushed angrily when he saw
the burly Indian slap the undersized fool of a boy, and he turned to the
hotel clerk and remarked:

"’Is this the real thing here? Does the gang stand for that kind of work
on the part of a mud-hided raw-meater?’ There was plenty of contempt in
the way the stranger spoke.

"The clerk shrugged his shoulders. ’We can’t undertake to cut in on any
of the plays of our guests,’ he replied. 'We just board and lodge ’em,
that’s all. If they’re jays enough to mix up with grafters, it’s their
game, and we’re not asking for any rake-off, one way or the other.’

"The stranger muttered something about a chicken-livered population, and
strolled out. He took his train an hour or so later.

"At certain seasons of the year, when there wasn’t must doing in his
line at The Dalles, owing to periodical scarcities of pluckable
tourists, the Indian would hit up Baker City, Pendleton, and other
Oregon towns in search of good things, and a couple of times a year he
included Olympia and Walla Walla in his itinerary. He sung somewhat
smaller in those places than he did at The Dalles, but by keeping his
eye skinned for men liable to call the turn on him and working quietly
he generally succeeded in pulling apart at least one jelly-fish in each
of the towns he took in on these off-season tours.

"About three months after he had left the marks of his fingers on the
lamb’s face at The Dalles—this was in the fall of ’92—he turned up one
day at Walla Walla. He strolled around the hotel corridors with an eye
to business, and along toward night he met with a young fellow named
Hellen, whose father, a wealthy Chicago man, had recently foreclosed a
mortgage on a big ranch about sixty miles from Walla Walla. The son, a
rather raw young chap, had come out to look the ranch over, and the
Indian got next to him as soon as he struck the town. The buck was an
expert billiard player, and he suggested a game of pin billiards to the
young Hellen chap. He played off on the youth, and soon got him to
betting on shots. After losing about a dozen $5 bets on shots, the
Indian socked it to the young man from Chicago by betting $300 that he
could execute a certain difficult shot. It looked like board and lodging
to the young man that the Indian’s $300 would spin into his clothes, so
he put up $300. The Indian made the shot with consummate ease and took
down the pot.

"’Fluke!’ said young Hellen. ’I’ll go you another $300.’

"The buck got this bunch, too, without half trying. It would naturally
be thought that the tenderfoot would have smelt a rat by this time. But
he didn’t. He had plenty of money, and probably he considered it piquant
to lose his coin to a swagger-looking, educated Indian. Anyhow, the two
were playing poker in the card-room of Walla Walla’s stag hotel half an
hour later.

"There were plenty of men in that card-room who knew that the Indian was
a short-carder, but men out that way aren’t garrulous, and they pay a
heap of attention to the job of minding their own business. The youth
from Chicago was the merest mutt in the hands of the Indian, and he lost
from the jump. He would stand pat on a full house, and the buck, drawing
three cards, would still beat him after sky-scraping betting. A number
of onlookers at the game may have seen the little side-plays of the
Indian, but they only grinned at each other over the hopeless imbecility
of the young man from Chicago.

"Finally the Indian, perhaps losing some of his dexterity from the
drinks he was steadily absorbing, over-stepped himself. He filled two
pairs from the discard and he did it clumsily. The young man with whom
he was playing saw the move.

"’I say, there,’ said he, ’what are you doing there, you know?’ pointing
to the discard. ’Didn’t you—er—didn’t you make a mistake and take a card
out of that pile?’

"The Indian, who was about $1,600 to the good, had cold feet, anyhow,
and so he threw his hand face downward on the table and glared at the
Chicago boy. The Chicago boy quailed.

"’Er—well, maybe I made the mistake myself’—he started to say, when a
big voice cut in with:

"’No, you didn’t son. You didn’t make any mistake at all. You’re up
against the real thing in the way of a mud-skinned short-riffler, that’s
all.’

"A keen-eyed, big-framed, prematurely gray-haired man was the speaker.
As he spoke he reached down from behind the Indian’s chair and got two
huge hands around the buck’s neck. The onlookers formed a clearing. The
Chicago youth got himself on the outskirts of the bunch.

"’About three months ago,’ said the keen-eyed man, dragging the huge,
half-choked Indian to his feet, ’I saw you at The Dalles leave the
prints of your dirty fingers on the face of a little whiffet you had
just fleeced. I hankered then to confer a few personally conducted slaps
of my own make and manufacture on your coppery jowls, but for some
reason or other I passed the hanker up on that occasion. Well, the slaps
are coming to you now. It’s better late than never, and I’m going to
slap you into jerked beef just for luck.’

"The buck was finally up against the real thing, and he knew it. I’ll
bet that his face was whiter than mine is now when the big-framed man,
who had the devil of anger lurking in his eyes, suddenly loosed his
right hand from around the Indian’s neck, and, still clutching him by
the left, swept the loose arm back for the momentum and brought his
heavy palm smack against the buck’s left cheek with a noise that sounded
like the explosion of a charge of blasting powder. The slap rattled the
Indian’s teeth and made his big head joggle from side to side like the
head of an automaton. Clutching the Indian’s throat again then with his
right hand, the big-framed man repeated the slapping performance on the
Indian’s right cheek with his left hand, and left a welt there that
might have been made by a cat-o’-nine tails. The buck was too dazed, in
the first place, by the suddenness of it all, to make a move: in the
second place, he was too cowardly. The big-framed man—he was an expert
mining engineer from Nevada, and his name was Varus Pryor—slapped the
Indian’s face, first with his right and then with his left, for three
minutes, with all his might, and then, getting behind the buck,
proceeded to slap him into the street. With first one hand and then the
other clutching the collar of the Indian’s coat, he slapped him out to
the front door of the hotel. Then he gave the buck the knee in the small
of the back, and hoisted him across the pavement to the middle of the
street, where the Indian spun around and fell for a moment.

"’I don’t care what the Indian Bureau says about it,’ said the keen-eyed
man, standing in the doorway of the hotel. ’God Almighty never intended
that white men should stand for such alligators as that copper-mugged
swindler, and’——

"’Stand clear, pard, he’s going to plug you!’ shouted a man from a
second-story window of the hotel.

"The Indian, pretending to be hurt, and only half risen to his feet in
the obscurity of the middle of the street, had got his gun out, and the
yell from the second story reached Pryor just in time. As it was, the
buck planted a ball in the front door of the hotel, only two inches
above the big-framed man’s head. By that time Pryor’s gun was working,
and he drilled six holes forty-eight hundredths of an inch in diameter
plumb through the swindling Umatilla’s chest. Forty-five minutes later
he was acquitted by a coroner’s jury on the grounds of self-defense and
justifiable homicide—a two-in-one verdict.

"This," concluded the traveling Inspector of Indian Agencies, "was the
finish of just one mentally-burnished buck Indian, and I know of several
others."




THE UNCERTAIN GAME OF STUD POKER.


_Story of a Séance at Stud Between Two Oregon Contractors and the Close
                            Finish Thereof._

"Somehow or another, I don’t like the game of stud," said a Government
contractor from Portland, Ore. "It’s too much of a strain to play stud.
There are too many heart-breaking and headache-producing possibilities
attached to the mysterious card the other fellow has got in the hole.
I’d rather take the chance of guessing what all of his five cards are
than to engage in the perspiring business of trying to figure out the
horrible possible value of the one blind card, especially if the four
cards he has exposed are capable of being amplified into a hand of the
topper kind by the addition of that bit of pasteboard in the pit. I
can’t get away from the impression that it’s like putting all of your
money in one bet to play stud. Now, there’s a good deal to the game of
draw besides mere bluffing. In fact, bluffing is almost an obsolete
feature of the game among the experts at draw poker. The man that plays
his hand in draw will beat the bluffer every time in
year-in-and-year-out play.

"The folks out my way had the stud-poker fad pretty badly about eight or
ten years ago, but now they’ve got back to their first love and stick
pretty generally to the game of California draw—which, by the way, is a
whole lot different game from the draw you people back here play. For
example, a man sprung a thing on me last night that he called a pat
straight. I had three aces, but he said his pat straight topped me, and
as he had his gang with him, I had to look pleasant and let him rake in
the money. If a man out on the Slope were to talk pat straight to a
party of aborigines, they’d conduct him to the Alcalde’s calaboose and
have him locked up to await a commission’s decision as to his
responsibility.

"But to get back to the period when the stud-poker fad got hold of us
out in Oregon. I was a witness of a heart-disease finish of a game of
that kind a few years back that caused me to decide that ordinary draw
was good enough for my money right along. It was right after the big
fire that ate up the best part of The Dalles eight years ago. As soon as
the building contractors of Portland got word to the effect that The
Dalles was being licked up by the flames, they hopped aboard trains and
made for The Dalles with an eye to business. They knew that The Dalles,
which was chiefly a wooden layout before the fire, would be immediately
rebuilt in brick and stone, and that the contractors who got on the
scene of ruin first would scoop in the bulk of the business. Two of
these contractors were—well, I’ll have to side-step on their names, for
they’re two of the most prominent citizens out on the banks of the
Willamette, and both of 'em walk up the middle aisle on Sunday as if
they never heard of such a thing as stud poker. Both of them are
Irishmen, which is why neither of ’em could see that he was licked on
this occasion.

"One of them, we’ll say, was Dan Carmody, and the other was Tim Feeney.
Carmody got into The Dalles a few hours ahead of Feeney, and he made
those few hours count. He went around to the business men of The Dalles
who had been wiped out by the fire and asked them what they wanted with
him. They hadn’t burned the wires up telegraphing for Carmody to come to
them, but Carmody about convinced them that they had done just this
thing, and he began making estimates for ’em with pencil and pad. He
corralled them in the one remaining hall of the town and told them to go
ahead and just let him know what they wanted of him. Carmody’s cyclonic
nerve appealed to their fancy, and they found themselves juggling with
the figures Carmody was putting down on his pad. Three hours after
Carmody struck The Dalles from Portland he had in his inside coat pocket
rough drafts of contracts to build a new stone business block, including
a theater, and also to erect a large, ornate hotel, the cost of both
buildings to be not more than $350,000. Oh, Carmody was a hustler all
right.

"He had an idea that his friend and business rival, Tom Feeney, would be
down on the next train from Portland, and he went to the station to
receive him. Sure enough, Feeney stepped off the next incoming train.
Carmody had his thumbs in the armholes of his waistcoat and a big cigar
stuck aggravatingly in his teeth when Feeney ran into him. Feeney’s jaw
fell.

"’When did you get in, Dan?’ he asked Carmody.

"’Three hours ago,’ replied Dan, with a grin.

"Feeney made a funny motion, as if to jump aboard a train that was just
pulling out for Portland, but he came back to his cheerful rival and
asked him:

"’Anything doing, Dan?’

"Carmody executed two very shifty jig steps in token of his happiness,
and then reassumed his dignity.

"’Well, I’ll tell you how it is, Tim,’ he said. ’These people here are
pretty badly chewed up, y’ see. Now, maybe they’ll be wanting to rebuild
a few chicken coops and outhouses—I don’t know but what they will. Now,
there’s a chance for you, Tim.’

"Feeney didn’t look very merry over this. Says he: 'Chicken coops, is
it? And who’s going to throw up the new business building and the opera
house, and the hotel, and the like?’

"Carmody was laying for that question. He drew the two rough contracts
out of his pocket.

"’ Looks as if I’m It over here, don’t it, Tim?’ he asked Feeney, as the
latter read over the two contracts with a gloomy countenance. ’Nice
work, hey? That’s what you get for monkeying around in bed all the
morning, Tim. Why don’t you be like me, now? I never go to bed,’ etc.
Carmody couldn’t refrain from working that nice edge of his, and strung
the dismal-faced Feeney for keeps. Feeney finally walked away, the
picture of dejection, to see if there were any crumbs to be picked up in
the way of rebuilding. He found, however, that all of the business men
that had not already been got by Carmody were disposed to wait awhile
for the disposition of insurance, and he didn’t get a smell of the
rebuilding. He walked around the still-smoking Dalles for the remainder
of the day, figuring on how much Carmody was going to make out of his
two big contracts. Carmody himself started in to open wine by way of
celebration, so that by the time the night boat for Portland was ready
to leave her slip he was pretty comfortable. Both he and Feeney took the
night boat and I happened to be going down to Portland on the boat
myself that night. Feeney had taken the bowl himself a bit during the
day to assuage his depression over his lack of success, and he was
pretty mellow when the boat pulled out. Carmody, with about a dozen
quarts under his belt, dug Feeney up as soon as he got aboard, and the
two walked up and down the main deck, arm in arm, Carmody keeping up his
merciless stringing of his friend. Then Carmody heard the clatter of the
chips in a $10 limit game of stud that had already started in the
card-room, and suggested a two-handed game of stud to Feeney, with some
accommodating non-player to deal the cards. Feeney was agreeable, and
Carmody, seeing that I wasn’t mixing up with the game in the card-room,
asked me if I wouldn’t dish ’em out for an hour or so of stud between
himself and Feeney. It was to be $100 limit and $10 ante. The two men
didn’t get up to the $100 limit at all until after they had played for
half an hour, and Carmody was $600 or $700 winner. Then Feeney found
himself with kings up on tens in front of him and a card that he either
liked or elected to bluff on in the hole, while Carmody had three aces
face up and a card in the hole that he appeared to think a heap of,
judging from the way he bet.

"’These kings of mine,’ said Feeney, with the transparent air of a man
making a win-out bluff, ’may not look very pretty alongside those three
bullets of yours, Carmody, but they suit me, at that. You can have a
peep at the blind for $100.’

"’I wouldn’t think of paying so little money for the privilege of gazing
at such a good card as you think you’ve got, Tim,’ said Carmody. ’Now,
having already got you beat on the show-up, I guess I can afford to
charge you another $100 for a glimpse of the other one-spot that I’ve
got in the pit.’

"This kind of talk went on for ten minutes, the two men raising each
other back at $100 a clip until there was $3800 in the pot. Feeney
talked and acted like a bluffer all the time, but nevertheless Carmody
began to suspect that, after all, Tim might have something in the hole
to beat him. So when Carmody called Feeney’s last $100 raise the latter
knew that his friend with the contracts in his pocket didn’t have any
four aces, and he just scooped in the pot before he showed up what he
had in the hole. It was the third king, completing a nice full hand,
that Feeney had in the hole, and the money was his. Carmody turned up a
deuce, that he had tried to make the bluff was another ace, and looked
properly crestfallen.

"’For a Mulligan that knows so little about business as you, Tim,’ said
Carmody, ’you’ve got a mighty crafty way about you of making it appear
that you’re bluffing. We’ll try it again, and from now on I’ll know that
when you look and talk like you’re bluffing you’ve got the hand.’

"Both men had been ringing up the steward’s boy a good deal, during the
progress of the game, and they were not, therefore, any more sober than
was necessary. On the very next hand Feeney took a big hunk out of his
rival. He had three deuces face up and Carmody had three jacks on top.
Feeney began to bet $100 with so much natty confidence that Carmody
decided that his compatriot was adopting new tactics in bluffing, and,
quite naturally, with his three nice-looking jacks plainly in sight, he
not only stood every raise but raised back the limit every time.

"’I figure it this way,’ said Carmody, abstractedly to himself, when
there was nigh onto $4000 in chips in the center of the baize. ’This
Harp from Connemara across the table can’t turn two of these tricks one
right after the other. The percentage of the game is against such a
thing as that. And he’s just perky and sassy because he thinks I’m on to
his first exhibited system of bluffing. Tim, another $100, if you want
to feast your Mulligan blue eyes on this other knave of mine in the
hole.’

"’And $100,’ said Feeney, with all the confidence in life.

"Thus they went on for fully fifteen minutes, until the proportions of
the pot were really alarming, considering that neither of the men was a
millionaire or anything like it. There was $7200 in the middle of the
table when Carmody wilted. He attempted to put his wilt on philanthropic
grounds.

"’With a drink or two in you, Tim,’ he said, ’you’re an incautious and
unwise citizen for a man humping along toward 60 years of age’—Feeney
wasn’t more than 48, and didn’t look that. ’And Mrs. Feeney’s been
telling my wife for the past twelve years that she’s aching to have a
look at the old sod, but that her man Tim considers himself too poor for
the journey. So I won’t be the means of casting gloom around your
household, Tim. I see your $100, and what’s the color of that cheap ten
or eight spot you’ve got in the hole?’

"Feeney turned over his fourth deuce and hauled down the money. That
sort o’ took Carmody’s nerve and he had to have several big drinks of
the hard stuff to set him right again. While he was drinking Feeney took
up the end of the stringing that Carmody had abandoned.

"’How much do you figure you’ll pull down from those two contracts,
Dan?’ he asked his rival in business.

"’About $75,000,’ answered Carmody quickly, ’which is just about $75,000
more than The Dalles fire has been worth to you, eh, Tim?’

"’What’s the use of depleting the capital that you’ve already got in
bank?’ asked Feeney, with a twinkle in his eye. ’Just play me stud for
those contracts. I’ll say they’re worth $60,000, and I’m good for that
if I’m good for a cent.’

"Carmody studied for a moment. He was already out $11,000 in this poker
game, and he wanted that money back. The idea of playing his contracts
against Feeney’s hard cash rather appealed to his imagination, which was
not less active on account of the huge quantity of stuff he had been
drinking.

"’Well, I’ll tell you what I’ll do to give you a start in life, Tim,’
said Carmody finally. ’You’ve got my checks for $11,000. Supposing you
call those two contracts worth $70,000, return me those checks for
$11,000, and say that the two contracts I’ve got in my pocket are worth
$59,000 as they stand. Then I’ll give you a chance to take as big a fall
out of the contracts as you think you can.’

"That idea suited Feeney to a T, and I stood by to begin dealing again.
The two contracts were pushed into the center of the table by Carmody,
and it was an additional part of my business, besides dealing, to make
note of the changing value of the contracts as the game progressed.

"Well, the game continued to go Feeney’s way, and Carmody just looked at
his contracts as Feeney began to edge them nearer and nearer to his end
of the table. Carmody, while he figured that the contracts were so much
velvet, didn’t look happy when Feeney picked $12,000 more out of them,
leaving their value to Dan only an approximate $47,000, but he played on
in the hope of better luck. Finally a queer hand came around. Carmody
caught two queens, an eight and a seven. So did Feeney. This thing made
Carmody mad.

"’Of all the niggering out I ever saw,’ he exclaimed, 'this is the
worst. But it’s about time I had the best of it when it comes to pure
bull-head luck.’

"So he bet the limit that he had a better card in the hole than Feeney.
Feeney came back at him every clip, and when I interposed a remonstrance
over the heftiness of the game, expressing the opinion that both of them
would probably be sorry they had gone into the thing so heavily when the
gray dawn came around, they said they knew they’d be sorry, and went
right ahead.

"’This is surely the hottest case of a stand-off in a deal in stud that
I’ve seen yet,’ said Feeney, ’and I shouldn’t be surprised if we had to
split the pot when the show-down comes. But I’m as good as you, Carmody,
on the four that show, and I’m with you all night if you’re going to
keep it up that long.’

"When my tab of the shifting value of the contracts showed that
Carmody’s interest therein was only an even $30,000, Carmody looked up
at the ceiling of the card-room and reflected.

"’Here,’ he said, ’is where I get my contracts back and break even, or
where I have to go into partnership with a slow-witted Irishman on those
buildings at The Dalles. Feeney, I call you.’

"Feeney turned over a six spot. Carmody’s card in the hole was a five.
Feeney was the possessor of a half interest in Carmody’s fine contracts
at The Dalles, and that’s how it happened that these two builders, who
had always gone it singly and alone, built up The Dalles in partnership.
They got along so well together at The Dalles work that three years
later they went into a general contracting partnership and they’ve been
getting rich ever since. But it was their stud game on The Dalles boat
that induced me to conclude that old-fashioned draw was good enough for
me."




THIS MAN WON TOO OFTEN.


 _With the Result That His Clothes Finally Went into a Pot, and Fortune
                           Scowled upon Him._

"When a man arrives at that pitch where he’ll bet the clothes off his
back over a jackpot, it’s about up to him to let the game of draw alone,
in my opinion," said a traveling special agent of the Treasury
Department. "I’m talking about a game of draw that happened last fall
down in the Territory, on the south bank of the Canadian River, in the
Chickasaw country, between four St. Louis men. They were on their annual
hunting trip down there. They were well-known business men of old St.
Loo, pals of a half a lifetime, and they had been after bear, deer,
feathered game, or any old thing shootable down in the Territory every
year together for more than a decade. They always played poker on these
outings, too, and the bank president always got all the money. The other
three couldn’t do anything whatever with the bank president’s brand of
poker. They’d been digging at him on these excursions for ten years,
trying every conceivable scheme to get his money, and even playing in
combination against him, but when it came time to strike camp he always
had all the money in the crowd, owned all the camp fixtures, and served
out smoking tobacco to his three chums in a lordly way only when he felt
generous. It made ’em hot, but they had to accept his alms if they
wanted to smoke.

"The three of ’em determined when the party set out from St. Louis in
their special car last autumn that the bank president wasn’t going to
come back from the hunting trip with all the money, even if they had to
leave his bones to bleach on the banks of the Canadian. They declared
together that the bank president’s sassiness for the remainder of the
year after eating them up at poker down in the Territory was something
unbearable, and they didn’t intend to stand for it any more.

"They played a little poker in their car on the trip down from St.
Louis, and this gave one of the three conspirators a chance to get hold
of the bank president’s two decks of cards. The conspirators carefully
marked these two decks of cards—marked ’em both just the same way—and
then, during the temporary absence of the bank president in another part
of the car, he elaborately explained to his two companions in infamy how
he had done it, the three going over the bank president’s two decks in
detail, so as to master the markings. Then the two decks were returned
furtively to the bank president’s grip, and the rest of the playing on
the trip down was done with ordinary packs. They never played big on
these journeys, anyhow, but reserved their stiff games for the
bad-weather days in camp.

"When they got to their point of debarkation on the line, they left
their car on a siding and struck out for their regular camp, about
seventy-five miles from the railroad. They stuck to the bagging of pelts
and antlers for a week or so; then a threatening morning came along and
the bank president suggested poker.

"’What’s the use?’ they all demurred, eying the bank president gloomily.
’You always get the whole works, and then you’re insufferable for the
rest of the year. We don’t think you’re on the level, anyhow.’

"’Oh, I’ll give you all a chance this time,’ said the bank president,
grinning. ’I won’t be hard upon you. Then, you see, the more you fellows
play with me in the game, why, the more you learn about poker, and I’m
sure the instruction you get helps you a lot in your games with the dubs
up in St. Loo. I’m noted, anyhow, for my generosity in giving others the
benefit of my wisdom.’

"’Well,’ said the spokesman and arch-conspirator of the three, ’we’ll
play a little game of table-stakes, but checks don’t go; this thing of
the three of us writing you checks that keep your large family in
opulence for a year is’——

"’All right, let it be table stakes,’ replied the bank president
amiably. ’I’m not a man to take bread out of the mouths of the
impoverished,’ and with more of such badinage the game started.

"An ordinary deck was used at first—a deck out of the satchel of the
real estate man, the infamous member of the conspiring trio who had
marked the bank president’s cards. The bank president, as usual, had all
of the luck from the jump. He seemed to rake down every pot. The three
glared at him and made all sorts of insinuating remarks about the
phenomenal luck of the bank president that had continued for a dozen
years. The bank president regarded them indulgently, and told them
they’d learn the elementary principles of the game after they’d camped
with him for another ten years or so.

"After an hour’s play the bank president beat the real estate man—the
other two had dropped out—out of a stiff jackpot with a pair of better
threes, and the real estate man simulated great rage and tore the deck
of cards into many pieces.

"’For heaven’s sake, give us another deck!’ he exclaimed, passionately,
with a furtive wink at his two companions in crime.

"The bank president reached back of him, collared his grip, and produced
one of his decks with a bland smile. They surely were scientifically
marked, for this bank president had an eye in his head, and he didn’t
get next.

"’Well, we’ll try one of my decks,’ said the bank president. 'Of course,
it’ll be a shame to plug you with a new musket—none of my decks has been
riffled yet—but maybe my unfamiliarity with the range of the fresh
gun’ll give you all a show at me.’ Oh, this bank president was arrogant
in victory, all right.

"Well, he wasn’t one, two, three, from then on, of course. It was done
mighty well, and not so as to excite the bank president’s suspicions in
the least, but he found himself topped practically every time, and his
face grew long. He was quite heavily in the hole at the end of an hour’s
play with his own deck.

"’Oh, we’ve got on to your bluffing style of play, that’s all,’ said the
real estate man complaisantly. ’You just had us scared together for the
past ten years, but you’re as clear a proposition now as a mountain
creek. I always thought you were more or less of a counterfeit and a
four-flusher, anyhow, didn’t you, fellows?’

"Of course the other two thought so, too, and the bank president’s brow
clouded as, time after time, after he had bet hard on hands that looked
to him to be worth every dollar he ventured on them, he found himself
topped, niggered out. The real estate man increased the bank president’s
worry by flashing a nine-high straight against the financier’s
eight-high straight, and then the latter did a card-tearing stunt
himself. He ripped his deck into ribbons with a running commentary of
strong talk.

"’It must be a rank deck that’ll permit of a set of amateur skates like
you fellows putting it on me,’ he said. Then he dug into his grip again
and produced the other 'phony deck, his three companions warning him
against letting his angry passions rise, and so on.

"The three conspirators let the bank president pull down a couple of
sizable pots with this deck just for the sake of enjoying his renewed
impertinence, and then they went at him good and hard. At the end of an
hour they had the bank president’s supply of ready cash—about $500—badly
wilted. He had only $100 left when it came around the real estate man’s
turn to dish out a jackpot round. The bank president was under the gun,
as they say out there of the man who’s to the left of the dealer of a
jackpot, and he cracked the pot open for the limit. The other two
stayed, and when it got up to the real estate man he raised it the
limit. This knocked his two confederates out of it—as a matter of fact
the arch-conspirator winked them out of it—but the limit was just what
the bank president wanted with his four bullets.

"The bank president took one card with a crafty,
I’ll-make-him-think-I’m-four-flushing expression of countenance. The
real estate man, with a queen-high sequence flush of hearts remarked
that the bunch he had was good enough for him. Then they got to betting,
and it was no time at all before the bank president had done the apology
act with the remains of his $500. He pulled out a check-book then and
was fumbling around for a fountain pen when the real estate man called
him down.

"’Not on your life,’ he said. ’Agreement was that checks don’t go,
you’ll remember.’

"’But this hand’——the bank president started to say.

"’Makes no difference about that hand,’ interrupted the real estate man.
’Agreement was for table stakes.’

"’But, great Cæsar, man,’ pleaded the bank president. 'I want to get
some kind of a decent run for this hand. Why, I’d bet the clothes right
off my back on it.’

"’Well,’ said the real estate man calmly, ’we didn’t make any
stipulation about clothes and personal possessions, and you can get the
clothes off your back if you want to. But no checks.’

"’Well,’ said the bank president, peeling off a big solitaire ring,
’this stone’s worth $400, and I’ll raise you that much.’

"’I see you,’ said the real estate man. ’What else have you got that I
can raise against?’

"’Well,’ replied the bank president, ’this watch is worth $300 and’——

"’Skate it in,’ interrupted the real estate man. ’Raise you $300 then,
your valuation of the ticker.’

"’Dog-gone the luck,’ said the bank president, ’I don’t want to call
you. I know I’ve got you beat. I’d be willing to bet my corduroys, shoes
and hat that I’ve got you soaked, for’——

"’Rush ’em to the center, then,’ calmly replied the real estate man.
’Supposing I appraise the corduroys, shoes and hat at $50 for the
bundle. That satisfactory?’

"’It’s got to be,’ replied the bank president mournfully.

"’All right, then, put ’em in the pot and I’ll consider that you’ve
called me,’ said the real estate man.

"The bank president stood up, peeled off his coat and waistcoat and
hunting breeches and dropped them on the blanket that served for a
table. Then he removed his pair of high hunting shoes and placed them on
top of the clothes, and tossed his fore-and-aft cap on the heap. Then he
sat down in his underclothes, picked up his four aces, and said:

"’Now, dern you, put down your little straight or full and I’ll show you
what you’re up against.’

"The wealthy depositors of the St. Louis bank of which he was the head
would have enjoyed seeing his face when the real estate man calmly laid
down his sequence flush and hauled down the pot, togs and all, without a
word.

"’You’re a good thing, ain’t you?’ said the other two, who had been
taking the play in with a positive knowledge of how it was going to come
out.

"The bank president looked pretty forlorn as the three sat there and
guyed him. Finally he stood up.

"’Well,’ said he to the real estate man. ’I’ll just write you a check
for the fifty you allowed on those togs of mine,’ and he started to
reach for the clothes in order to dress himself. The real estate man
held the suit, shoes and hat out of the bank president’s reach.

"’These things ain’t for sale,’ he said. ’They’ll all just about fit
me,’ trying on the hat, ’and I guess I’ll just hang on to them as a sort
of No. 2 outfit.’

"’But, great Scott, man!’ exclaimed the bank president, 'don’t you know
that I haven’t got another stitch in camp—that that rig-out’s the only
one I brought from the car?’

"’Too bad,’ said the real estate man. ’You hadn’t ought to’ve skated the
togs into the pot, then. Sorry, old man, but honest, I really couldn’t
think of parting with these things for any amount of money. I’ve only
got one suit along with me, too, and only one hat and pair of shoes, and
if they get wet what am I going to do? Got to have a change, you know. I
really feel very deeply for you in your predicament, and so do the other
boys—don’t you fellows?—but I need this outfit in my business.’

"The other two men nodded their heads in grave endorsement of this stand
and the bank president frothed at the mouth.

"’What the devil do you expect me to do, you blamed idiot?’ he shouted
at the real estate man. ’Stand around the tent and shiver, or cut across
the trail in my underclothes for the car to get another set of togs?’

"’I wish I could think of some plan to help you out, old man,’ answered
the real estate man with commiseration in his countenance, ’but I really
couldn’t think, under any consideration, of giving up these things,’ and
he made the suit, the shoes and the hat up into a neat bundle as he
spoke. Just then one of the other men, who had been prowling outside,
came running into the tent breathless.

"’Say, fellows,’ he exclaimed, ’there’s some fresh bear tracks right
over there in the clearing,’ and he grabbed his gun. So did the other
two. The bank president made as if to pick up his rifle, too, when his
eye fell on his lack of raiment. By that time the real estate man was
fifty yards from the tent, at a lope with the other two.

"’Hey, come back here, you confounded cut-throat!’ the financier yelled
after the real estate man, who had the bank president’s clothes, shoes
and hat slung in a neat bundle over his shoulder. But the three men were
out of voice range in a jiffy.

"They came back, beaming, along toward nightfall, with the pelts of two
nice young black bears. They found the bank president moping around,
wrapped up in a blanket and sulphurizing the air when they reached the
tent. Then they sat around him in a circle and expressed their sincere
sympathy with him and told him his case was only one more instance of
the awful evil of gambling. After supper and a pipe they all turned in,
leaving the bank president still sulking and uttering terrible
maledictions under his breath.

"The real estate man and the other two went out early the next
morning—the bank president’s clothes along with them—and when they got
back they found the blanketed financier on the verge of apoplexy from
sheer wrath. The real estate man then made a great show of charity by
giving up the togs, and the bank president was in a state of good-nature
by the time camp was struck. The three conspirators united in a letter
of explanation, inclosing all of their winnings, to the bank president
when they got back to St. Louis, and when the bank president got the
letter and his disgorged losings he was most tickled to death and
instantly became as perky and impudent as ever.

"’I knew you couldn’t have done it if you’d played on the square,’ said
he, the first time he met them. ’Wait till next year, that’s all.’"




THE NERVE OF GAMBLERS AT CRITICAL MOMENTS.


_Wherein It Is Shown That It Is Easy Enough to Be Cool When Playing with
                         Another Man’s Money._

"I happen to know that a considerable number of the most famous
professional gamblers in this country made their reputation with other
men’s money," said a Rocky Mountain man of large experience. "These men
have had their names heralded far and wide as the stakers of thousands,
and even hundreds of thousands, upon the turn of a card, and innumerable
yarns have been spun as to their cool, John Oakhurst-like manner of
scooping in a table full of money upon the smashing of a bank, or of
calmly lighting their cigars and strolling out when fortune went against
them. So far as the stories themselves are concerned, some of them are
undoubtedly right; but all of them leave out the very essential fact
that the men were simply players of other men’s money—’table touts,’ we
call ’em out West. I suppose it is a reasonable proposition that it is a
whole lot easier to risk another man’s money at the table than it is to
endanger your own. Of all the men I am telling you about hardly a one
had enough luck at the tables to keep himself warm when putting up his
own coin; perhaps it was owing to the extreme caution of their play
under these conditions and the far greater strain involved in the
hazarding of their own money. They could take another man’s money—the
money of a man who probably did not know the difference between 00 and
33 in a wheel layout, but who could afford to venture almost an
unlimited amount of money on a game—and in at least eight cases out of
ten they could run the initial stake into a pile that would mean for
themselves a rake-off or percentage of thousands or tens of thousands;
but in venturing their own money I have seen few of them who were any
good in the matter of keeping their nerve under rein.

"Back in the sixties Tom Naseby was generally considered the most
dangerous man at a faro table on the Pacific Slope. Bank after bank,
from Portland to San Diego, went to the wall under his system of play—or
lack of system, I ought to say—and at the end the San Francisco banks
shut him out altogether, so that he was compelled to start a layout of
his own. Among Naseby’s smashes that were famous on the coast was that
of breaking Byron McGregor’s Kearny street institution to the tune of
$150,000; of hitting up Tillottson’s $10,000 limit game in San Francisco
for $100,000 and closing the doors, and of banging Ned Jordan’s bank in
Portland for $125,000, all within the space of three months. Yet Naseby
told me himself that on none of these plays was he venturing a _sou
marqué_ of his own money—that it had all been handed over to him, the
initial stakes for each big play, that is, by Ralston, the millionaire
San Francisco banker, who committed suicide. Out of each winning Naseby
of course got a big cut of the money, for Ralston went into the thing
for the sport of it and was a very generous man. Naseby, who belonged to
the tribe of savers for a rainy day, hung onto these rolls. Naseby
played faro with just about as much skill as a Zulu wields a war club,
and he frankly confessed that his coups were simply the result of
unlimited confidence and unlimited backing allied to bull-head luck.

"Frank Burbridge, the most famous poker player that Portland has ever
brought out, was another man who made his reputation as a gambler upon
the strength of the vast winnings he hauled out upon stakes furnished by
wealthy men. Some of these rich backers of Burbridge remained behind the
screen and only received Frank’s reports as to how he made out in the
games for which they staked him, but others came out into the open and
sat alongside Burbridge when he was playing with their money—not for the
purpose of watching him, for he was strictly on the level, but just for
the fun of watching the game. One of the big contractors for the
building of the Oregon Short Line, a man worth many millions of dollars,
was one of Burbridge’s clients who liked to watch the expert poker
player play the hands. He was constantly staking Burbridge for big games
with dangerous opponents. If Frank won, all right; he got most of the
money himself. If he lost, all right, too; the contractor simply went
into the thing for the mental distraction it afforded him.

"I was a witness of one of those big games in which Burbridge engaged
with a stake furnished by the contractor. It was played at the old
Willamette House in Portland, and it was a two-handed game. The other
player was a very wealthy Portland man who was said to have made a big
pot of money by simply making the suggestion that he intended to
parallel the Oregon Short Line. This rich man thought he knew how to
play poker until his friend, the contractor of the Short Line who was
Burbridge’s staker, put him up against the latter—partly for the
interest of watching the game, and partly, perhaps, for other reasons.
Anyhow, the Portland man had a whole heap of an opinion of what he knew
about poker, and played the game incessantly for pastime. He had never
happened to sit in a game with Burbridge, and Burbridge’s backer finally
suggested to the Portland man that he have a try at what he could do
with the man who was known to be the most expert player of poker in the
Northwest.

"’Oh, he’s a professional,’ said the Portland man, 'and I don’t play
cards with professionals in a contest of skill such as I see you want to
make this. I play with 'em once in a while just to study their games,
but not for big money. I wouldn’t trust them under such circumstances.’

"’Well, you trust me, I suppose, don’t you?’ said the contractor.

"’Certainly,’ was the reply.

"’All right, my friend,’ said the contractor, ’I’d just like to find out
to satisfy my own curiosity how good you can play poker. I don’t amount
to much at it myself, and I don’t think you’re any better than I am.
Very well. You sit into a game with Burbridge, and I’ll deal all the
hands myself, and sit by to see fair play—though Burbridge plays just as
fairly as I would myself under the same circumstances. Does that
proposition suit you?’

"’Yes,’ said the Portland man, ’I’d just like to give Burbridge a whirl
under those circumstances.’

"So the game was arranged. Four or five of us were invited around to the
old Willamette House to look on while the game progressed. The two men
sat down to the game about 8 o’clock at night. The Portland man—I will
call him Tunwell, which is pretty close to his right name—had
occasionally met Burbridge, who was a very smooth, urbane sort of chap
of thirty, and so they nodded good-naturedly to each other when Tunwell
came into the room. The contractor was on hand with his check-book. The
conditions were simply that the contractor was to deal each of the
hands, and then retire from the table with the remainder of the deck
until the call for cards. Then he was to dish out what cards were called
for, and get away from the table again until the hand was played. The
rest of us were to sit around, with the privilege of having peeps at the
hands. Tunwell was to have the privilege of asking the advice of any of
us as to proper plays, as Burbridge was to be permitted to refer hands
that heavily involved the contractor’s purse to the latter—not to seek
advice, but simply to inform him what he intended to do in the play. The
game was to be without limit, and the chips were worth $5, $25, and $50.

"So the game began. Tunwell soon proved himself a pretty cool man. He
didn’t put up a stingy game, but he simply had the proper sort of regard
for the worth of the cards the contractor dished out to him, and he
played them right, as we who were watching the game and had a chance of
seeing both hands soon discovered. Two or three times in the early part
of the game I, for one, thought he was a bit overcautious, but in
general his line of play was away above the average. Tunwell was a big,
gray-eyed man of the type that is jammed full of well-controlled nerve,
and he held himself on this night in additional check because he knew
that he was up against a hard proposition. The play at first didn’t
amount to much—fifty or hundred-dollar bets occasionally—and both men
seemed to be sparring for information on the style of each other’s play.
Tunwell finally decided upon a bluff. He had a nine high, and he went up
to $500 on it. Burbridge laid down. This was pretty good for Tunwell,
but he had the sense to show no exultation. Now, after making a thing
like that go through, most men would keep on bluffing until called when
on steep and craggy ground, but Tunwell didn’t. He resumed the system of
playing for what his hands were worth. This he stuck to for half an hour
or so, when he was $800 ahead of the game and then he made another bluff
on a pair of queens. Burbridge, who had three aces, laid down, and
Tunwell’s pile was amplified by $1,000.

"’That was a cold bluff, Burbridge,’ said Tunwell.

"’Oh, I don’t think so,’ said Burbridge. ’There was too much confidence
in your eye for that.’ Which shows that even a great poker player is as
likely as anybody to get mixed when it comes to studying eyes in a game.

"After a while Burbridge caught a pat full house, and Tunwell filled a
still better full hand. It was Tunwell’s bet, and he went $1,000 on it.
Burbridge laid down—wherein it was plain to be seen that he was a man
who possessed that indefinable thing, the poker player’s 'hunch.’

"Now, all these plays I’m telling you about were simply part of the
warming up. The two men were simply studying each other. They didn’t
really begin to play poker until two hours after they sat down.

"Then the contractor dealt Burbridge a promising set of threes, and gave
Tunwell a neat two pairs, with aces on top. Tunwell filled with another
ace, and Burbridge got nothing worth mentioning in the draw, so that his
three nines didn’t look very big to us against an ace full. It was
Burbridge’s bet. He was one of those men who lay their cards down on the
table and look up at the ceiling before making a bet.

"’Five thousand dollars,’ said he finally, still looking up at the
ceiling reflectively, and the contractor, who had seen Tunwell’s draw,
winced a bit.

"Tunwell looked at him pretty hard and scanned his hand. He raised him
$5,000.

"’And $5,000,’ said Burbridge, quietly. Now, the contractor was a pretty
game sort of man, but we could see that he felt badly over this.

"Then Tunwell laid down. Burbridge’s bluff worked. Of course, not until
after the game did we tell him what Tunwell held that time, and when we
did he said:

"’I felt from the first, before I made a bet that he had me beat—but the
bigger a man’s hand, the easier it is to bluff him out of the money.’
Queer remark, wasn’t it?

"Tunwell kept his nerve like a major after this heavy fall, and we
couldn’t see the slightest sign of faltering in his style of play. The
game went back to the $100 basis, and was comparatively uninteresting
for an hour or so. In the course of the play during this time Tunwell
caught four queens pat—a very remarkable thing—and got 50 only out of
the hands. But unlike what most poker players would do under such
circumstances, he didn’t throw down the hand face upward on the table
with an oath. He wasn’t that kind of poker player.

"Just about midnight both men simultaneously decided upon a bluff—and
it’s not often that men happen to do this in a two-handed poker game;
when they do, something always drops. Both men stood pat. There wasn’t a
pair in either hand. It was a choice experience to note the offhand way
with which Burbridge made the first bet on this pat hand of his.

"’Ten thousand dollars,’ said he, and his backer, the contractor, went
to the window, raised it, and poked his head out for air.

"’Same, more than you,’ said Tunwell, scanning his hand as if it was the
real thing.

"Burbridge raised him another $10,000 and flicked a bit of ashes off his
collar. Now Tunwell felt that his man was bluffing.

"’I call you,’ said he.

"’Ace high,’ said Burbridge.

"’Ace high here,’ said Tunwell.

"’Queen next.’

"’Queen next here.’

"’Nine next.’

"’Nine next here.’

"’Six next.’

"Tunwell tossed his four that was next on to the table face upward
without the movement of an eyebrow.

"’Six wins the $60,000,’ said he, and the contractor strolled back from
the window.

"’Better luck next time, Tunwell,’ said he, smiling, while Burbridge
drank a glass of water.

"’There isn’t going to be any next time, my boy,’ returned Tunwell. ’I’m
no hog.’"




THE INSIDIOUS GAME OF SQUEEZE-SPINDLE.


_And How a Whirl at It Came Near Decimating the Population of a Section
                       of the Indian Territory._

"I don’t just recall the name of the cheerful worker who invented that
wise phrase, ’There’s a sucker born every minute, and they never die,’
but whoever he was he had something inside his head besides mayonnaise
dressing," said a giant from the Indian Territory, when the talk among a
party of Westerners at a roadhouse the other night switched around to
sure-thing games and cinch propositions. "I don’t suppose there ever was
yet a sure-thing game rigged up that didn’t get its quota of nibblers,
and even its occasional easy marks, who’d go up against it with their
whole rolls. I’m not speaking so much now of brace games as I am of
layouts that might just as well have the words, ’You lose,’ painted all
over 'em, they’re such obvious air-tights for the dealers. I suppose
we’ve all been up against brace faro. That’s something that a man can’t
heel himself against; the most he can do when he gets next to it that
two of ’em are slipping out of the box at one and the same time is to
'stick up’ the dealer at the business end of a .45—if he’s quick
enough—accumulate all the money in sight, and back toward the door.

"But a man who’ll lay up alongside of a brace faro layout or a brace
wheel need not necessarily be sucker enough to hand his dust over to a
smooth duck who’s dealing a game that has all the scars, moles, tattoo
marks and other perfectly visible Bertillons of a dead open and shut
sure-thing layout. Yet I’ve seen men who were wise in their own
business—horse-rustling, for instance—go broke against games that you’d
think a ten-year-old would size up correctly without the assistance of
an X-ray apparatus.

"I’m thinking of the time that Jink McAtee, afterward one of the foxiest
horse-thieves who ever used an upside-down brand in the Southwest, got
interested in squeeze-spindle in Guthrie. It was in Guthrie, in May,
1889, just after Oklahoma had been opened up, that the two Reeves
brothers, Bill and Al, and Arthur Pendleton started an all-round layout
in what was the first two-story shack that had been thrown up in the
town. The two Reeves boys are still running the biggest layout in
Guthrie, but Pendleton is dead. The Reeves-Pendleton brand of faro, as
well as their keno, wheel, stud, and other legitimate games, was
perfectly on the level, but in addition they had a few games in
operation that was plain cases to most of the patrons of the layout of
the sure-thing. The Reeves and Pendleton people didn’t club anybody into
stacking up against their sure-thing games. They just started ’em going,
hired a man named Gately to run ’em, and struck the attitude that if
among the sooners and boomers of Guthrie there was people imbecile
enough to want to hit up these sure-thing games, it wasn’t their
funeral.

"The most alluring among these sure-thing games was the outfit called
the squeeze-spindle. You used to run across a squeeze-spindle quite
often down in the Southwest, but so many of the dealers of that game got
shot up and slithered that it has sort o’ passed out. It’s a lottery
game ostensibly, where the player makes what the dealer calls
’conditional’ winnings, and the dealer has to have the assistance of
’boosters’ to throw confidence into the suckers. It took a good con man
to run a squeeze-spindle game. The sucker would put up a hundred to win
five hundred; he’d cop the coin ’conditionally’—that is to say, the
arrow that flew around in the middle of the box had to point to another
number of the sucker’s selection before the money would be his to walk
away with, and in the event of the arrow pointing to the right number
the player would get twice the sum.

"Of course the arrow never went the sucker’s way twice hand-running, and
equally, of course, it was a game where the dealer got all of the money.
The reason it was called a squeeze-spindle was because the dealer had
only to squeeze a button beneath the table to stop the arrow at any old
point in its flight around the numbers that he wanted to. When a sucker
was up against the game, a ’booster’ would prance in with a big roll of
the house’s money, treble it on a couple of straight turns of the
spindle, squeezed just his way by the dealer, and then the sucker would
conclude that it was only his lack of capital that caused him to
lose—just as the pin-head who doubles on favorites at the races tries to
convince himself when’s he’s broke and smoking a punk pipe that he’d
have been able to put all the bookmakers out of business if he’d just
had the capital to keep on with his system. Once in a great while a
squeeze-spindle dealer would let one of his good things get away with a
bunch of money, if he felt reasonably sure that the sucker would come
back at it with the coin later on; and thus the ingenuous little fiction
’ud go around that So-and-So had pasted a squeeze-spindle dealer for his
whole roll, and this would make business.

"Now, here was a game that you wouldn’t think a man with the sense he
was born with would bet twenty cents worth of zinc money on. But this
man Gately, who ran the squeeze-spindle for the Reeves-Pendleton layout
on a salary and commission basis, was a pretty smooth gazzabo in his
generation, and he landed the good things with his layout right along,
and often for sizeable money. He was a quiet, red bearded chap, with a
mighty convincing, persuasive way about him, and a man who’d put up a
fight, too, in a corner. He had free rein in the running of the
squeeze-spindle and two or three other sure-thing devices that formed a
sort of side-show to the main Reeves-Pendleton layout, and the
proprietors pretended that his outfit was really independent of their
plant—that Gately was simply renting space from them and going it alone.
But all Guthrie knew differently.

"Well, up against this squeeze-spindle plant goes this here Jink McAtee
that I started to tell you about. Jink wasn’t then known as a
horse-thief. He had been a sooner—he got in long before the trumpet call
on a thoroughbred Kentucky horse that he was afterward found to have
pinched out of a barn—and he had made a pretty good thing out of the
Guthrie corner lot that he had staked off. He sold it three days after
the dash for $6000, and then he laid back on his liquor with a whole lot
of content. He was a low forehead in looks and manners. He was the
veriest duffer in his attempts to make the Reeves-Pendleton combination
put up their shutters by attacking their square games, and he lost over
$3000 of his corner-lot money at their faro tables. He blew in another
couple of thousand of the bunch at the honkatonks around town before his
little beady eyes fell on Gately’s squeeze-spindle, and he perceived a
chance to get all of his money back in jig-time. Gately pointed it out
to him just how easy it was.

"Before McAtee put a dollar down on the spindle Gately got Jink’s eyes
to popping by roping in a booster who pulled $3200 out of the
squeeze-spindle in quicker time than a cayuse could make two jumps, and
when Gately looked chagrined and sorrowful McAtee bit. Gately knew his
man pretty well, and he permitted Jink to not only win $1600
’conditionally,’ right off the reel, but he actually passed $400 of
Jink’s winnings over to him. Then he proceeded to wipe Jink out. When
McAtee was all trimmed up, Gately looked sad.

"’You didn’t have quite enough along with you, McAtee,’ he said, shaking
his head real mournfully. ’If you’d had another $200 to cover that $1600
that you’d won and left in the hole, why, you’d had me heading for the
Canadian River by this time.’

"McAtee ate this spiel of Gately’s up as if it was so much lunch on a
counter, and went away filled with the idea that there was riches in the
squeeze-spindle if it was hit right, and with enough money to back up
the plays. So he went to just eleven of his sooner friends and talked
squeeze-spindle to ’em. He put it to them just what a good thing the
squeeze-spindle was rightly hammered. He told ’em how near he’d been to
pulling out his losings, and more besides, through the medium of
Gately’s squeeze-spindle at the Reeves-Pendleton layout. They took
Jink’s word for it, and they all joined the pool that McAtee organized
to smash that spindle. They got together $2600, and on the afternoon
following Jink’s play they walked down to the Reeves-Pendleton plant in
a body. Each man had a rifle along with him. There wasn’t anything
remarkable about that. During the first year of Guthrie’s existence
every man carried a long-iron over his arm. If twelve men, all with
rifles, were to line up in front of the Reeves-Pendleton layout in
Guthrie to-day there’d be good reason for the people inside to suppose
that they were going to be ’stuck up,’ but there was no reason to
suppose anything of the kind when Jack McAtee brought along his eleven
subscribers to his squeeze-spindle-smashing pool that afternoon. Gately
wasn’t worried a little bit.

"’My friends is all got a interest in this, podner,’ explained Jink to
Gately, ’and they come along jest t’ see th’ play.’

"’Certainly,’ said Gately, and then Jink and his bunch began to get
action on the spindle. It all went their way at first. Gately didn’t
actually hand them any money out, but he let ’em make ’conditional’ wins
until they had their whole $2600 on the layout. Another correct twist of
the arrow would enable Jink to double the money; on the other hand, if
the arrow didn’t hit the right number, Jink and his bunch only stood to
lose, as Gately explained, $600 of their ’conditional’ winnings.

"Now, the situation was one calculated to rattle almost any man. Gately
didn’t intend that Jink or his twelve stalkers with the long-irons
should get away with any of that money, and it shows that he was a man
of nerve in making up his mind to that idea. He intended to get the
$2600 after a long series of plays, and then take a chance on the Jink
McAtee gang roaring and opening up on him. That’s what he intended to
do. But he was a bit rattled and stampeded over the intense way the gang
had of looking upon the plays, and that’s how he happened to make a
mistake. He gave his button too short a squeeze, and blamed if the arrow
didn’t stop at precisely the number that stood to win Jink and his gang
$2600 of the house’s money, in addition to pulling down the $2600 they
had in!

"Gately saw his mistake almost as soon as he had made it, but a booster
named Gilpin, who was watching the play, was the quicker thinker of the
two. He jumped off a stool upon which he had been standing looking over
the heads of Jink’s crowd, and yelled out:

"’Stand clear, there! Don’t shoot!’

"It was a ruse. Nobody had any idea of shooting. Jink and his gang were
simply flooded with joy over their winning. But when they heard Gilpin’s
warning, they all jumped back, and that was Gately’s chance to redeem
his bad break. He snatched up the $5200—the rule of the spindle game is
that the dealer must show the same amount of money the sucker has got in
play, and Gately had $2600 of the house’s money spread out—and back he
jumped through the door, which led out into an alley. Jink and his crowd
were stupefied. They stood stock still. Gately had gone with their money
and the house’s money, and they didn’t think of taking after him. They
figured it that the house would make good, perhaps. Anyhow, by the time
they came to, Gately had mazed it through the wilderness of shacks of
which Guthrie was already composed, and Bill Reeves had appeared on the
scene.

"I had been with Bill in the main layout in the next room, and we heard
the shout of Gilpin. That’s what took us in there. Jink made his talk,
which was a pretty hot and threatening one, and he was backed up in it
pretty forcibly by all the rest of his gang.

"’Well, Gately jumped, that’s all,’ said Reeves. ’What am I going to do
about it?’

"’Hand over $5200, quick,’ said McAtee and some others of his bunch.

"’I haven’t got anything like that much money in the place,’ said
Reeves. ’But I’ll give you a check for it on the bank down the way.’

"They demurred over the check proposition for awhile, but they finally
took Bill Reeves’s check for $5200. While they were demurring, Bill
Reeves had a chance to scribble a note to the cashier of the bank,
telling him not to cash the check when it would be presented—to make
some excuse about not having just that amount of money on hand, or
something of that sort. Now, I didn’t want to be in that place at all
just then, but there was no way of my getting out. I had come into the
room with Bill Reeves, and I knew that if I tried to mosey away I’d be
called back; that they figured me to have some sort of connection with
the layout, which I didn’t.

"Jink took the check and went over to the bank to get the money. The
cashier turned the check down on the ground that he had just shipped
most of the bank’s money to St. Louis. We knew that there was going to
be trouble and a whole lot of it when Jink got back from the bank with
that word, and I don’t think any of us expected to last much longer.
Jink came a-loping back from the bank, and when he came into the room
and tore up the check with appropriate remarks his gang all lined up
together, and we figured it that the shooting was going to begin right
then. When the whole situation looked so squally that I had my eye on
the nearest window to drop out of, Arthur Pendleton popped into the
room.

"’What’s all this?’ he yelled, for there was a lot of clicking going on
in the room. Jink and his gang thought they saw a final chance of
getting their money. So, smoldering, they told the story to Pendleton.
Pendleton was a shrewd man, a forceful talker, and a diplomat from away
back.

"’All the money I’ve got, or that there is in the roll just now,’ he
said, ’is $600,’ pulling the roll out of his pocket. ’You are perfectly
welcome to that. When Gately comes back, or when you get him, as I wish
you would, you can have the rest that’s coming to you out of the roll he
pinched.’

"Well, the $600 looked like better than no bread to Jink and his bunch,
and they took it and went out after Gately. It was getting along toward
twilight. Reeves and Pendleton figured it that Gately, in pulling down
the roll, had been acting in the interest of the house. They hadn’t the
slightest notion that Gately had eloped with the $5200. They thought
he’d plant the money, keep out of sight for a few days until the Jink
McAtee push could be compromised with, and then come back.

"McAtee’s gang beat up every shack in town thoroughly, but there was no
Gately. They whipped the prairie for miles around, but they didn’t
spring Gately. Gately had gone. The gang came back to the
Reeves-Pendleton layout, all of ’em pretty ugly. Pendleton got them
bunched, made a speech to them to the effect that if Gately wasn’t
corralled within a week he’d make good the whole amount coming to them
out of his own pocket, and soft-soaped them into accepting those terms.
They dispersed.

"When Gately didn’t come back the next day, or give any indication to
his employers where he was, they got worried.

"’I think Gately has drilled,’ Pendleton said to me that day. ’He’s an
Iowan, and there’s going to be a big conclave and tournament of firemen
in Council Bluffs next week. I’ll bet Gately has made for Council
Bluffs. I’m going after him. Come along with me.’

"I told Pendleton that I hadn’t anything to do with the game, but I
wasn’t overlooking business propositions, and when he offered me 50 per
cent. of all the money we might reclaim from Gately, I went with him. We
got onto Gately’s trail in Council Bluffs, as Pendleton had shrewdly
guessed we might, but he had been tipped off that we were after him, and
he chased over to Omaha. We were right after him, and he jumped for a
town in Southwestern Iowa called Red Oak. We were hot on his trail, and
we met up with him squarely next day in Red Oak.

"’Let’s have the money, Gately,’ said Pendleton.

"’I’ll pass you back the house bunch, $2600,’ said Gately, ’but the rest
of it I keep,’ and he looked as if he meant it, good and hard, at that.

"’How do you make that out a square deal?’ asked Pendleton.

"’Because,’ replied Gately, pretty convincingly, ’it was me that took
the chance. I made a mistake, and stood to lose the house’s $2600. If I
hadn’t taken a chance, they’d have got the coin. If I’d have won their
$2600, your shack would have been shot into a sieve, and me into the
bargain. It was a case of run. I had to do the running. I earned the
$2600, and I hang on to it.’

"It struck me that this was pretty square talk, and I told Pendleton so,
and advised him to cut out any idea of getting all the money back from
Gately through the medium of a gun-play. Gately handed out $2600, and
then he told us how he had got away. He had struck across the prairie
for Mulhall, and some of the McAtee gang, in scouring the country
a-horseback, had not only been right behind him, but they had passed
him. He heard them coming from behind, and he thought they had
recognized him in the twilight. He didn’t dare to look back, but he
stooped down as if to tie his shoe, and looked at them under his arm
while in that stooping posture. They didn’t figure that the man they
were after would be taking things so leisurely as all that, and so they
passed right by him in the gathering gloom, a-hunting Gately. Gately got
to Mulhall, and took the first train up for Omaha.

"Before we got back to Guthrie, Jink McAtee and several of his pals in
the pool to smash the Gately squeeze-spindle had been given the sudden
chase by the United States Deputy Marshals for some horse-rustling
operation of theirs that had just come to light, and when Jink McAtee
got shot full of slugs by a posse down in the Brazos bottoms, three
years later, the Reeves-Pendleton layout still stood indebted to him in
the sum of $4600 with accrued interest, the balance that Jink and his
push did not pull down in their attempt to stampede a squeeze-spindle
layout."
At length I returned from two weeks leave of absence to find that my
patrons had arrived three days ago in Roulettenberg. I received from
them a welcome quite different to that which I had expected. The
General eyed me coldly, greeted me in rather haughty fashion, and
dismissed me to pay my respects to his sister. It was clear that from
SOMEWHERE money had been acquired. I thought I could even detect a
certain shamefacedness in the General's glance. Maria Philipovna, too,
seemed distraught, and conversed with me with an air of detachment.
Nevertheless, she took the money which I handed to her, counted it, and
listened to what I had to tell. To luncheon there were expected that
day a Monsieur Mezentsov, a French lady, and an Englishman; for,
whenever money was in hand, a banquet in Muscovite style was always
given. Polina Alexandrovna, on seeing me, inquired why I had been so
long away. Then, without waiting for an answer, she departed. Evidently
this was not mere accident, and I felt that I must throw some light
upon matters. It was high time that I did so.

I was assigned a small room on the fourth floor of the hotel (for you
must know that I belonged to the General's suite). So far as I could
see, the party had already gained some notoriety in the place, which
had come to look upon the General as a Russian nobleman of great
wealth. Indeed, even before luncheon he charged me, among other things,
to get two thousand-franc notes changed for him at the hotel counter,
which put us in a position to be thought millionaires at all events for
a week! Later, I was about to take Mischa and Nadia for a walk when a
summons reached me from the staircase that I must attend the General.
He began by deigning to inquire of me where I was going to take the
children; and as he did so, I could see that he failed to look me in
the eyes. He WANTED to do so, but each time was met by me with such a
fixed, disrespectful stare that he desisted in confusion. In pompous
language, however, which jumbled one sentence into another, and at
length grew disconnected, he gave me to understand that I was to lead
the children altogether away from the Casino, and out into the park.
Finally his anger exploded, and he added sharply:

"I suppose you would like to take them to the Casino to play roulette?
Well, excuse my speaking so plainly, but I know how addicted you are to
gambling. Though I am not your mentor, nor wish to be, at least I have
a right to require that you shall not actually compromise me."

"I have no money for gambling," I quietly replied.

"But you will soon be in receipt of some," retorted the General,
reddening a little as he dived into his writing desk and applied
himself to a memorandum book. From it he saw that he had 120 roubles of
mine in his keeping.

"Let us calculate," he went on. "We must translate these roubles into
thalers. Here--take 100 thalers, as a round sum. The rest will be safe
in my hands."

In silence I took the money.

"You must not be offended at what I say," he continued. "You are too
touchy about these things. What I have said I have said merely as a
warning. To do so is no more than my right."

When returning home with the children before luncheon, I met a
cavalcade of our party riding to view some ruins. Two splendid
carriages, magnificently horsed, with Mlle. Blanche, Maria Philipovna,
and Polina Alexandrovna in one of them, and the Frenchman, the
Englishman, and the General in attendance on horseback! The passers-by
stopped to stare at them, for the effect was splendid--the General
could not have improved upon it. I calculated that, with the 4000
francs which I had brought with me, added to what my patrons seemed
already to have acquired, the party must be in possession of at least
7000 or 8000 francs--though that would be none too much for Mlle.
Blanche, who, with her mother and the Frenchman, was also lodging in
our hotel. The latter gentleman was called by the lacqueys "Monsieur le
Comte," and Mlle. Blanche's mother was dubbed "Madame la Comtesse."
Perhaps in very truth they WERE "Comte et Comtesse."

I knew that "Monsieur le Comte" would take no notice of me when we met
at dinner, as also that the General would not dream of introducing us,
nor of recommending me to the "Comte." However, the latter had lived
awhile in Russia, and knew that the person referred to as an "uchitel"
is never looked upon as a bird of fine feather. Of course, strictly
speaking, he knew me; but I was an uninvited guest at the luncheon--the
General had forgotten to arrange otherwise, or I should have been
dispatched to dine at the table d'hote. Nevertheless, I presented
myself in such guise that the General looked at me with a touch of
approval; and, though the good Maria Philipovna was for showing me my
place, the fact of my having previously met the Englishman, Mr. Astley,
saved me, and thenceforward I figured as one of the company.

This strange Englishman I had met first in Prussia, where we had
happened to sit vis-a-vis in a railway train in which I was travelling
to overtake our party; while, later, I had run across him in France,
and again in Switzerland--twice within the space of two weeks! To
think, therefore, that I should suddenly encounter him again here, in
Roulettenberg! Never in my life had I known a more retiring man, for he
was shy to the pitch of imbecility, yet well aware of the fact (for he
was no fool). At the same time, he was a gentle, amiable sort of an
individual, and, even on our first encounter in Prussia I had contrived
to draw him out, and he had told me that he had just been to the North
Cape, and was now anxious to visit the fair at Nizhni Novgorod. How he
had come to make the General's acquaintance I do not know, but,
apparently, he was much struck with Polina. Also, he was delighted that
I should sit next him at table, for he appeared to look upon me as his
bosom friend.

During the meal the Frenchman was in great feather: he was discursive
and pompous to every one. In Moscow too, I remembered, he had blown a
great many bubbles. Interminably he discoursed on finance and Russian
politics, and though, at times, the General made feints to contradict
him, he did so humbly, and as though wishing not wholly to lose sight
of his own dignity.

For myself, I was in a curious frame of mind. Even before luncheon was
half finished I had asked myself the old, eternal question: "WHY do I
continue to dance attendance upon the General, instead of having left
him and his family long ago?" Every now and then I would glance at
Polina Alexandrovna, but she paid me no attention; until eventually I
became so irritated that I decided to play the boor.

First of all I suddenly, and for no reason whatever, plunged loudly and
gratuitously into the general conversation. Above everything I wanted
to pick a quarrel with the Frenchman; and, with that end in view I
turned to the General, and exclaimed in an overbearing sort of
way--indeed, I think that I actually interrupted him--that that summer
it had been almost impossible for a Russian to dine anywhere at tables
d'hote. The General bent upon me a glance of astonishment.

"If one is a man of self-respect," I went on, "one risks abuse by so
doing, and is forced to put up with insults of every kind. Both at
Paris and on the Rhine, and even in Switzerland--there are so many
Poles, with their sympathisers, the French, at these tables d'hote that
one cannot get a word in edgeways if one happens only to be a Russian."

This I said in French. The General eyed me doubtfully, for he did not
know whether to be angry or merely to feel surprised that I should so
far forget myself.

"Of course, one always learns SOMETHING EVERYWHERE," said the Frenchman
in a careless, contemptuous sort of tone.

"In Paris, too, I had a dispute with a Pole," I continued, "and then
with a French officer who supported him. After that a section of the
Frenchmen present took my part. They did so as soon as I told them the
story of how once I threatened to spit into Monsignor's coffee."

"To spit into it?" the General inquired with grave disapproval in his
tone, and a stare, of astonishment, while the Frenchman looked at me
unbelievingly.

"Just so," I replied. "You must know that, on one occasion, when, for
two days, I had felt certain that at any moment I might have to depart
for Rome on business, I repaired to the Embassy of the Holy See in
Paris, to have my passport visaed. There I encountered a sacristan of
about fifty, and a man dry and cold of mien. After listening politely,
but with great reserve, to my account of myself, this sacristan asked
me to wait a little. I was in a great hurry to depart, but of course I
sat down, pulled out a copy of L'Opinion Nationale, and fell to reading
an extraordinary piece of invective against Russia which it happened to
contain. As I was thus engaged I heard some one enter an adjoining room
and ask for Monsignor; after which I saw the sacristan make a low bow
to the visitor, and then another bow as the visitor took his leave. I
ventured to remind the good man of my own business also; whereupon,
with an expression of, if anything, increased dryness, he again asked
me to wait. Soon a third visitor arrived who, like myself, had come on
business (he was an Austrian of some sort); and as soon as ever he had
stated his errand he was conducted upstairs! This made me very angry. I
rose, approached the sacristan, and told him that, since Monsignor was
receiving callers, his lordship might just as well finish off my affair
as well. Upon this the sacristan shrunk back in astonishment. It simply
passed his understanding that any insignificant Russian should dare to
compare himself with other visitors of Monsignor's! In a tone of the
utmost effrontery, as though he were delighted to have a chance of
insulting me, he looked me up and down, and then said: "Do you suppose
that Monsignor is going to put aside his coffee for YOU?" But I only
cried the louder: "Let me tell you that I am going to SPIT into that
coffee! Yes, and if you do not get me my passport visaed this very
minute, I shall take it to Monsignor myself."

"What? While he is engaged with a Cardinal?" screeched the sacristan,
again shrinking back in horror. Then, rushing to the door, he spread
out his arms as though he would rather die than let me enter.

Thereupon I declared that I was a heretic and a barbarian--"Je suis
heretique et barbare," I said, "and that these archbishops and
cardinals and monsignors, and the rest of them, meant nothing at all to
me. In a word, I showed him that I was not going to give way. He looked
at me with an air of infinite resentment. Then he snatched up my
passport, and departed with it upstairs. A minute later the passport
had been visaed! Here it is now, if you care to see it,"--and I pulled
out the document, and exhibited the Roman visa.

"But--" the General began.

"What really saved you was the fact that you proclaimed yourself a
heretic and a barbarian," remarked the Frenchman with a smile. "Cela
n'etait pas si bete."

"But is that how Russian subjects ought to be treated? Why, when they
settle here they dare not utter even a word--they are ready even to
deny the fact that they are Russians! At all events, at my hotel in
Paris I received far more attention from the company after I had told
them about the fracas with the sacristan. A fat Polish nobleman, who
had been the most offensive of all who were present at the table
d'hote, at once went upstairs, while some of the Frenchmen were simply
disgusted when I told them that two years ago I had encountered a man
at whom, in 1812, a French 'hero' fired for the mere fun of discharging
his musket. That man was then a boy of ten and his family are still
residing in Moscow."

"Impossible!" the Frenchman spluttered. "No French soldier would fire
at a child!"

"Nevertheless the incident was as I say," I replied. "A very respected
ex-captain told me the story, and I myself could see the scar left on
his cheek."

The Frenchman then began chattering volubly, and the General supported
him; but I recommended the former to read, for example, extracts from
the memoirs of General Perovski, who, in 1812, was a prisoner in the
hands of the French. Finally Maria Philipovna said something to
interrupt the conversation. The General was furious with me for having
started the altercation with the Frenchman. On the other hand, Mr.
Astley seemed to take great pleasure in my brush with Monsieur, and,
rising from the table, proposed that we should go and have a drink
together. The same afternoon, at four o'clock, I went to have my
customary talk with Polina Alexandrovna; and, the talk soon extended to
a stroll. We entered the Park, and approached the Casino, where Polina
seated herself upon a bench near the fountain, and sent Nadia away to a
little distance to play with some other children. Mischa also I
dispatched to play by the fountain, and in this fashion we--that is to
say, Polina and myself--contrived to find ourselves alone.

Of course, we began by talking on business matters. Polina seemed
furious when I handed her only 700 gulden, for she had thought to
receive from Paris, as the proceeds of the pledging of her diamonds, at
least 2000 gulden, or even more.

"Come what may, I MUST have money," she said. "And get it somehow I
will--otherwise I shall be ruined."

I asked her what had happened during my absence.

"Nothing; except that two pieces of news have reached us from St.
Petersburg. In the first place, my grandmother is very ill, and
unlikely to last another couple of days. We had this from Timothy
Petrovitch himself, and he is a reliable person. Every moment we are
expecting to receive news of the end."

"All of you are on the tiptoe of expectation?" I queried.

"Of course--all of us, and every minute of the day. For a
year-and-a-half now we have been looking for this."

"Looking for it?"

"Yes, looking for it. I am not her blood relation, you know--I am
merely the General's step-daughter.  Yet I am certain that the old lady
has remembered me in her will."

"Yes, I believe that you WILL come in for a good deal," I said with
some assurance.

"Yes, for she is fond of me. But how come you to think so?"

I answered this question with another one. "That Marquis of yours," I
said, "--is HE also familiar with your family secrets?"

"And why are you yourself so interested in them?" was her retort as she
eyed me with dry grimness.

"Never mind. If I am not mistaken, the General has succeeded in
borrowing money of the Marquis."

"It may be so."

"Is it likely that the Marquis would have lent the money if he had not
known something or other about your grandmother? Did you notice, too,
that three times during luncheon, when speaking of her, he called her
'La Baboulenka'? [Dear little Grandmother]. What loving, friendly
behaviour, to be sure!"

"Yes, that is true. As soon as ever he learnt that I was likely to
inherit something from her he began to pay me his addresses. I thought
you ought to know that."

"Then he has only just begun his courting? Why, I thought he had been
doing so a long while!"

"You KNOW he has not," retorted Polina angrily. "But where on earth did
you pick up this Englishman?" She said this after a pause.

"I KNEW you would ask about him!" Whereupon I told her of my previous
encounters with Astley while travelling.

"He is very shy," I said, "and susceptible. Also, he is in love with
you.--"

"Yes, he is in love with me," she replied.

"And he is ten times richer than the Frenchman. In fact, what does the
Frenchman possess? To me it seems at least doubtful that he possesses
anything at all."

"Oh, no, there is no doubt about it. He does possess some chateau or
other. Last night the General told me that for certain. NOW are you
satisfied?"

"Nevertheless, in your place I should marry the Englishman."

"And why?" asked Polina.

"Because, though the Frenchman is the handsomer of the two, he is also
the baser; whereas the Englishman is not only a man of honour, but ten
times the wealthier of the pair."

"Yes? But then the Frenchman is a marquis, and the cleverer of the
two," remarked Polina imperturbably.

"Is that so?" I repeated.

"Yes; absolutely."

Polina was not at all pleased at my questions; I could see that she was
doing her best to irritate me with the brusquerie of her answers. But I
took no notice of this.

"It amuses me to see you grow angry," she continued. "However, inasmuch
as I allow you to indulge in these questions and conjectures, you ought
to pay me something for the privilege."

"I consider that I have a perfect right to put these questions to you,"
was my calm retort; "for the reason that I am ready to pay for them,
and also care little what becomes of me."

Polina giggled.

"Last time you told me--when on the Shlangenberg--that at a word from
me you would be ready to jump down a thousand feet into the abyss. Some
day I may remind you of that saying, in order to see if you will be as
good as your word. Yes, you may depend upon it that I shall do so. I
hate you because I have allowed you to go to such lengths, and I also
hate you and still more--because you are so necessary to me. For the
time being I want you, so I must keep you."

Then she made a movement to rise. Her tone had sounded very angry.
Indeed, of late her talks with me had invariably ended on a note of
temper and irritation--yes, of real temper.

"May I ask you who is this Mlle. Blanche?" I inquired (since I did not
wish Polina to depart without an explanation).

"You KNOW who she is--just Mlle. Blanche. Nothing further has
transpired. Probably she will soon be Madame General--that is to say,
if the rumours that Grandmamma is nearing her end should prove true.
Mlle. Blanche, with her mother and her cousin, the Marquis, know very
well that, as things now stand, we are ruined."

"And is the General at last in love?"

"That has nothing to do with it. Listen to me. Take these 700 florins,
and go and play roulette with them. Win as much for me as you can, for
I am badly in need of money."

So saying, she called Nadia back to her side, and entered the Casino,
where she joined the rest of our party. For myself, I took, in musing
astonishment, the first path to the left. Something had seemed to
strike my brain when she told me to go and play roulette. Strangely
enough, that something had also seemed to make me hesitate, and to set
me analysing my feelings with regard to her. In fact, during the two
weeks of my absence I had felt far more at my ease than I did now, on
the day of my return; although, while travelling, I had moped like an
imbecile, rushed about like a man in a fever, and actually beheld her
in my dreams. Indeed, on one occasion (this happened in Switzerland,
when I was asleep in the train) I had spoken aloud to her, and set all
my fellow-travellers laughing. Again, therefore, I put to myself the
question: "Do I, or do I not love her?" and again I could return myself
no answer or, rather, for the hundredth time I told myself that I
detested her. Yes, I detested her; there were moments (more especially
at the close of our talks together) when I would gladly have given half
my life to have strangled her! I swear that, had there, at such
moments, been a sharp knife ready to my hand, I would have seized that
knife with pleasure, and plunged it into her breast. Yet I also swear
that if, on the Shlangenberg, she had REALLY said to me, "Leap into
that abyss," I should have leapt into it, and with equal pleasure. Yes,
this I knew well. One way or the other, the thing must soon be ended.
She, too, knew it in some curious way; the thought that I was fully
conscious of her inaccessibility, and of the impossibility of my ever
realising my dreams, afforded her, I am certain, the keenest possible
pleasure. Otherwise, is it likely that she, the cautious and clever
woman that she was, would have indulged in this familiarity and
openness with me? Hitherto (I concluded) she had looked upon me in the
same light that the old Empress did upon her servant--the Empress who
hesitated not to unrobe herself before her slave, since she did not
account a slave a man. Yes, often Polina must have taken me for
something less than a man!"

Still, she had charged me with a commission--to win what I could at
roulette. Yet all the time I could not help wondering WHY it was so
necessary for her to win something, and what new schemes could have
sprung to birth in her ever-fertile brain. A host of new and unknown
factors seemed to have arisen during the last two weeks. Well, it
behoved me to divine them, and to probe them, and that as soon as
possible. Yet not now: at the present moment I must repair to the
roulette-table.



II

I confess I did not like it. Although I had made up my mind to play, I
felt averse to doing so on behalf of some one else. In fact, it almost
upset my balance, and I entered the gaming rooms with an angry feeling
at my heart. At first glance the scene irritated me. Never at any time
have I been able to bear the flunkeyishness which one meets in the
Press of the world at large, but more especially in that of Russia,
where, almost every evening, journalists write on two subjects in
particular namely, on the splendour and luxury of the casinos to be
found in the Rhenish towns, and on the heaps of gold which are daily to
be seen lying on their tables.  Those journalists are not paid for
doing so: they write thus merely out of a spirit of disinterested
complaisance. For there is nothing splendid about the establishments in
question; and, not only are there no heaps of gold to be seen lying on
their tables, but also there is very little money to be seen at all. Of
course, during the season, some madman or another may make his
appearance--generally an Englishman, or an Asiatic, or a Turk--and (as
had happened during the summer of which I write) win or lose a great
deal; but, as regards the rest of the crowd, it plays only for petty
gulden, and seldom does much wealth figure on the board.

When, on the present occasion, I entered the gaming-rooms (for the
first time in my life), it was several moments before I could even make
up my mind to play. For one thing, the crowd oppressed me. Had I been
playing for myself, I think I should have left at once, and never have
embarked upon gambling at all, for I could feel my heart beginning to
beat, and my heart was anything but cold-blooded. Also, I knew, I had
long ago made up my mind, that never should I depart from Roulettenberg
until some radical, some final, change had taken place in my fortunes.
Thus, it must and would be. However ridiculous it may seem to you that
I was expecting to win at roulette, I look upon the generally accepted
opinion concerning the folly and the grossness of hoping to win at
gambling as a thing even more absurd. For why is gambling a whit worse
than any other method of acquiring money? How, for instance, is it
worse than trade? True, out of a hundred persons, only one can win; yet
what business is that of yours or of mine?

At all events, I confined myself at first simply to looking on, and
decided to attempt nothing serious. Indeed, I felt that, if I began to
do anything at all, I should do it in an absent-minded, haphazard sort
of way--of that I felt certain. Also, it behoved me to learn the game
itself; since, despite a thousand descriptions of roulette which I had
read with ceaseless avidity, I knew nothing of its rules, and had never
even seen it played.

In the first place, everything about it seemed to me so foul--so
morally mean and foul. Yet I am not speaking of the hungry, restless
folk who, by scores nay, even by hundreds--could be seen crowded around
the gaming-tables. For in a desire to win quickly and to win much I can
see nothing sordid; I have always applauded the opinion of a certain
dead and gone, but cocksure, moralist who replied to the excuse that
"one may always gamble moderately", by saying that to do so makes
things worse, since, in that case, the profits too will always be
moderate.

Insignificant profits and sumptuous profits do not stand on the same
footing. No, it is all a matter of proportion. What may seem a small
sum to a Rothschild may seem a large sum to me, and it is not the fault
of stakes or of winnings that everywhere men can be found winning, can
be found depriving their fellows of something, just as they do at
roulette. As to the question whether stakes and winnings are, in
themselves, immoral is another question altogether, and I wish to
express no opinion upon it. Yet the very fact that I was full of a
strong desire to win caused this gambling for gain, in spite of its
attendant squalor, to contain, if you will, something intimate,
something sympathetic, to my eyes: for it is always pleasant to see men
dispensing with ceremony, and acting naturally, and in an unbuttoned
mood....

Yet, why should I so deceive myself? I could see that the whole thing
was a vain and unreasoning pursuit; and what, at the first glance,
seemed to me the ugliest feature in this mob of roulette players was
their respect for their occupation--the seriousness, and even the
humility, with which they stood around the gaming tables. Moreover, I
had always drawn sharp distinctions between a game which is de mauvais
genre and a game which is permissible to a decent man. In fact, there
are two sorts of gaming--namely, the game of the gentleman and the game
of the plebs--the game for gain, and the game of the herd. Herein, as
said, I draw sharp distinctions. Yet how essentially base are the
distinctions! For instance, a gentleman may stake, say, five or ten
louis d'or--seldom more, unless he is a very rich man, when he may
stake, say, a thousand francs; but, he must do this simply for the love
of the game itself--simply for sport, simply in order to observe the
process of winning or of losing, and, above all things, as a man who
remains quite uninterested in the possibility of his issuing a winner.
If he wins, he will be at liberty, perhaps, to give vent to a laugh, or
to pass a remark on the circumstance to a bystander, or to stake again,
or to double his stake; but, even this he must do solely out of
curiosity, and for the pleasure of watching the play of chances and of
calculations, and not because of any vulgar desire to win. In a word,
he must look upon the gaming-table, upon roulette, and upon trente et
quarante, as mere relaxations which have been arranged solely for his
amusement. Of the existence of the lures and gains upon which the bank
is founded and maintained he must profess to have not an inkling. Best
of all, he ought to imagine his fellow-gamblers and the rest of the mob
which stands trembling over a coin to be equally rich and gentlemanly
with himself, and playing solely for recreation and pleasure. This
complete ignorance of the realities, this innocent view of mankind, is
what, in my opinion, constitutes the truly aristocratic. For instance,
I have seen even fond mothers so far indulge their guileless, elegant
daughters--misses of fifteen or sixteen--as to give them a few gold
coins and teach them how to play; and though the young ladies may have
won or have lost, they have invariably laughed, and departed as though
they were well pleased. In the same way, I saw our General once
approach the table in a stolid, important manner. A lacquey darted to
offer him a chair, but the General did not even notice him. Slowly he
took out his money bags, and slowly extracted 300 francs in gold, which
he staked on the black, and won. Yet he did not take up his
winnings--he left them there on the table. Again the black turned up,
and again he did not gather in what he had won; and when, in the third
round, the RED turned up he lost, at a stroke, 1200 francs. Yet even
then he rose with a smile, and thus preserved his reputation; yet I
knew that his money bags must be chafing his heart, as well as that,
had the stake been twice or thrice as much again, he would still have
restrained himself from venting his disappointment.

On the other hand, I saw a Frenchman first win, and then lose, 30,000
francs cheerfully, and without a murmur. Yes; even if a gentleman
should lose his whole substance, he must never give way to annoyance.
Money must be so subservient to gentility as never to be worth a
thought.  Of course, the SUPREMELY aristocratic thing is to be entirely
oblivious of the mire of rabble, with its setting; but sometimes a
reverse course may be aristocratic to remark, to scan, and even to gape
at, the mob (for preference, through a lorgnette), even as though one
were taking the crowd and its squalor for a sort of raree show which
had been organised specially for a gentleman's diversion. Though one
may be squeezed by the crowd, one must look as though one were fully
assured of being the observer--of having neither part nor lot with the
observed. At the same time, to stare fixedly about one is unbecoming;
for that, again, is ungentlemanly, seeing that no spectacle is worth an
open stare--are no spectacles in the world which merit from a gentleman
too pronounced an inspection.

However, to me personally the scene DID seem to be worth undisguised
contemplation--more especially in view of the fact that I had come
there not only to look at, but also to number myself sincerely and
wholeheartedly with, the mob. As for my secret moral views, I had no
room for them amongst my actual, practical opinions. Let that stand as
written: I am writing only to relieve my conscience. Yet let me say
also this: that from the first I have been consistent in having an
intense aversion to any trial of my acts and thoughts by a moral
standard. Another standard altogether has directed my life....

As a matter of fact, the mob was playing in exceedingly foul fashion.
Indeed, I have an idea that sheer robbery was going on around that
gaming-table. The croupiers who sat at the two ends of it had not only
to watch the stakes, but also to calculate the game--an immense amount
of work for two men! As for the crowd itself--well, it consisted mostly
of Frenchmen. Yet I was not then taking notes merely in order to be
able to give you a description of roulette, but in order to get my
bearings as to my behaviour when I myself should begin to play. For
example, I noticed that nothing was more common than for another's hand
to stretch out and grab one's winnings whenever one had won. Then there
would arise a dispute, and frequently an uproar; and it would be a case
of "I beg of you to prove, and to produce witnesses to the fact, that
the stake is yours."

At first the proceedings were pure Greek to me. I could only divine and
distinguish that stakes were hazarded on numbers, on "odd" or "even,"
and on colours. Polina's money I decided to risk, that evening, only to
the amount of 100 gulden. The thought that I was not going to play for
myself quite unnerved me. It was an unpleasant sensation, and I tried
hard to banish it. I had a feeling that, once I had begun to play for
Polina, I should wreck my own fortunes. Also, I wonder if any one has
EVER approached a gaming-table without falling an immediate prey to
superstition? I began by pulling out fifty gulden, and staking them on
"even." The wheel spun and stopped at 13. I had lost! With a feeling
like a sick qualm, as though I would like to make my way out of the
crowd and go home, I staked another fifty gulden--this time on the red.
The red turned up. Next time I staked the 100 gulden just where they
lay--and again the red turned up. Again I staked the whole sum, and
again the red turned up. Clutching my 400 gulden, I placed 200 of them
on twelve figures, to see what would come of it. The result was that
the croupier paid me out three times my total stake! Thus from 100
gulden my store had grown to 800! Upon that such a curious, such an
inexplicable, unwonted feeling overcame me that I decided to depart.
Always the thought kept recurring to me that if I had been playing for
myself alone I should never have had such luck. Once more I staked the
whole 800 gulden on the "even." The wheel stopped at 4. I was paid out
another 800 gulden, and, snatching up my pile of 1600, departed in
search of Polina  Alexandrovna.

I found the whole party walking in the park, and was able to get an
interview with her only after supper. This time the Frenchman was
absent from the meal, and the General seemed to be in a more expansive
vein. Among other things, he thought it necessary to remind me that he
would be sorry to see me playing at the gaming-tables. In his opinion,
such conduct would greatly compromise him--especially if I were to lose
much. "And even if you were to WIN much I should be compromised," he
added in a meaning sort of way. "Of course I have no RIGHT to order
your actions, but you yourself will agree that..." As usual, he did not
finish his sentence. I answered drily that I had very little money in
my possession, and that, consequently, I was hardly in a position to
indulge in any conspicuous play, even if I did gamble. At last, when
ascending to my own room, I succeeded in handing Polina her winnings,
and told her that, next time, I should not play for her.

"Why not?" she asked excitedly.

"Because I wish to play FOR MYSELF," I replied with a feigned glance of
astonishment. "That is my sole reason."

"Then are you so certain that your roulette-playing will get us out of
our difficulties?" she inquired with a quizzical smile.

I said very seriously, "Yes," and then added: "Possibly my certainty
about winning may seem to you ridiculous; yet, pray leave me in peace."

Nonetheless she insisted that I ought to go halves with her in the
day's winnings, and offered me 800 gulden on condition that henceforth,
I gambled only on those terms; but I refused to do so, once and for
all--stating, as my reason, that I found myself unable to play on
behalf of any one else, "I am not unwilling so to do," I added, "but in
all probability I should lose."

"Well, absurd though it be, I place great hopes on your playing of
roulette," she remarked musingly; "wherefore, you ought to play as my
partner and on equal shares; wherefore, of course, you will do as I
wish."

Then she left me without listening to any further protests on my part.



III

On the morrow she said not a word to me about gambling. In fact, she
purposely avoided me, although her old manner to me had not changed:
the same serene coolness was hers on meeting me--a coolness that was
mingled even with a spice of contempt and dislike. In short, she was at
no pains to conceal her aversion to me. That I could see plainly. Also,
she did not trouble to conceal from me the fact that I was necessary to
her, and that she was keeping me for some end which she had in view.
Consequently there became established between us relations which, to a
large extent, were incomprehensible to me, considering her general
pride and aloofness. For example, although she knew that I was madly in
love with her, she allowed me to speak to her of my passion (though she
could not well have showed her contempt for me more than by permitting
me, unhindered and unrebuked, to mention to her my love).

"You see," her attitude expressed, "how little I regard your feelings,
as well as how little I care for what you say to me, or for what you
feel for me." Likewise, though she spoke as before concerning her
affairs, it was never with complete frankness. In her contempt for me
there were refinements. Although she knew well that I was aware of a
certain circumstance in her life of something which might one day cause
her trouble, she would speak to me about her affairs (whenever she had
need of me for a given end) as though I were a slave or a passing
acquaintance--yet tell them me only in so far as one would need to know
them if one were going to be made temporary use of. Had I not known the
whole chain of events, or had she not seen how much I was pained and
disturbed by her teasing insistency, she would never have thought it
worthwhile to soothe me with this frankness--even though, since she not
infrequently used me to execute commissions that were not only
troublesome, but risky, she ought, in my opinion, to have been frank in
ANY case. But, forsooth, it was not worth her while to trouble about MY
feelings--about the fact that I was uneasy, and, perhaps, thrice as put
about by her cares and misfortunes as she was herself!

For three weeks I had known of her intention to take to roulette. She
had even warned me that she would like me to play on her behalf, since
it was unbecoming for her to play in person; and, from the tone of her
words I had gathered that there was something on her mind besides a
mere desire to win money. As if money could matter to HER! No, she had
some end in view, and there were circumstances at which I could guess,
but which I did not know for certain. True, the slavery and abasement
in which she held me might have given me (such things often do so) the
power to question her with abrupt directness (seeing that, inasmuch as
I figured in her eyes as a mere slave and nonentity, she could not very
well have taken offence at any rude curiosity); but the fact was that,
though she let me question her, she never returned me a single answer,
and at times did not so much as notice me. That is how matters stood.

Next day there was a good deal of talk about a telegram which, four
days ago, had been sent to St. Petersburg, but to which there had come
no answer. The General was visibly disturbed and moody, for the matter
concerned his mother. The Frenchman, too, was excited, and after dinner
the whole party talked long and seriously together--the Frenchman's
tone being extraordinarily presumptuous and offhand to everybody. It
almost reminded one of the proverb, "Invite a man to your table, and
soon he will place his feet upon it." Even to Polina he was brusque
almost to the point of rudeness. Yet still he seemed glad to join us in
our walks in the Casino, or in our rides and drives about the town. I
had long been aware of certain circumstances which bound the General to
him; I had long been aware that in Russia they had hatched some scheme
together although I did not know whether the plot had come to anything,
or whether it was still only in the stage of being talked of. Likewise
I was aware, in part, of a family secret--namely, that, last year, the
Frenchman had bailed the General out of debt, and given him 30,000
roubles wherewith to pay his Treasury dues on retiring from the
service. And now, of course, the General was in a vice--although the
chief part in the affair was being played by Mlle. Blanche. Yes, of
this last I had no doubt.

But WHO was this Mlle. Blanche? It was said of her that she was a
Frenchwoman of good birth who, living with her mother, possessed a
colossal fortune. It was also said that she was some relation to the
Marquis, but only a distant one a cousin, or cousin-german, or
something of the sort. Likewise I knew that, up to the time of my
journey to Paris, she and the Frenchman had been more ceremonious
towards our party--they had stood on a much more precise and delicate
footing with them; but that now their acquaintanceship--their
friendship, their intimacy--had taken on a much more off-hand and
rough-and-ready air. Perhaps they thought that our means were too
modest for them, and, therefore, unworthy of politeness or reticence.
Also, for the last three days I had noticed certain looks which Astley
had kept throwing at Mlle. Blanche and her mother; and it had occurred
to me that he must have had some previous acquaintance with the pair. I
had even surmised that the Frenchman too must have met Mr. Astley
before. Astley was a man so shy, reserved, and taciturn in his manner
that one might have looked for anything from him. At all events the
Frenchman accorded him only the slightest of greetings, and scarcely
even looked at him. Certainly he did not seem to be afraid of him;
which was intelligible enough. But why did Mlle. Blanche also never
look at the Englishman?--particularly since, a propos of something or
another, the Marquis had declared the Englishman to be immensely and
indubitably rich? Was not that a sufficient reason to make Mlle.
Blanche look at the Englishman? Anyway the General seemed extremely
uneasy; and, one could well understand what a telegram to announce the
death of his mother would mean for him!

Although I thought it probable that Polina was avoiding me for a
definite reason, I adopted a cold and indifferent air; for I felt
pretty certain that it would not be long before she herself approached
me. For two days, therefore, I devoted my attention to Mlle. Blanche.
The poor General was in despair! To fall in love at fifty-five, and
with such vehemence, is indeed a misfortune! And add to that his
widowerhood, his children, his ruined property, his debts, and the
woman with whom he had fallen in love! Though Mlle. Blanche was
extremely good-looking, I may or may not be understood when I say that
she had one of those faces which one is afraid of. At all events, I
myself have always feared such women. Apparently about twenty-five
years of age, she was tall and broad-shouldered, with shoulders that
sloped; yet though her neck and bosom were ample in their proportions,
her skin was dull yellow in colour, while her hair (which was extremely
abundant--sufficient to make two coiffures) was as black as Indian ink.
Add to that a pair of black eyes with yellowish whites, a proud glance,
gleaming teeth, and lips which were perennially pomaded and redolent of
musk. As for her dress, it was invariably rich, effective, and chic,
yet in good taste. Lastly, her feet and hands were astonishing, and her
voice a deep contralto. Sometimes, when she laughed, she displayed her
teeth, but at ordinary times her air was taciturn and
haughty--especially in the presence of Polina and Maria Philipovna. Yet
she seemed to me almost destitute of education, and even of wits,
though cunning and suspicious. This, apparently, was not because her
life had been lacking in incident. Perhaps, if all were known, the
Marquis was not her kinsman at all, nor her mother, her mother; but
there was evidence that, in Berlin, where we had first come across the
pair, they had possessed acquaintances of good standing. As for the
Marquis himself, I doubt to this day if he was a Marquis--although
about the fact that he had formerly belonged to high society (for
instance, in Moscow and Germany) there could be no doubt whatever. What
he had formerly been in France I had not a notion. All I knew was that
he was said to possess a chateau. During the last two weeks I had
looked for much to transpire, but am still ignorant whether at that
time anything decisive ever passed between Mademoiselle and the
General. Everything seemed to depend upon our means--upon whether the
General would be able to flourish sufficient money in her face. If ever
the news should arrive that the grandmother was not dead, Mlle.
Blanche, I felt sure, would disappear in a twinkling. Indeed, it
surprised and amused me to observe what a passion for intrigue I was
developing. But how I loathed it all! With what pleasure would I have
given everybody and everything the go-by! Only--I could not leave
Polina. How, then, could I show contempt for those who surrounded her?
Espionage is a base thing, but--what have I to do with that?

Mr. Astley, too, I found a curious person. I was only sure that he had
fallen in love with Polina. A remarkable and diverting circumstance is
the amount which may lie in the mien of a shy and painfully modest man
who has been touched with the divine passion--especially when he would
rather sink into the earth than betray himself by a single word or
look. Though Mr. Astley frequently met us when we were out walking, he
would merely take off his hat and pass us by, though I knew he was
dying to join us. Even when invited to do so, he would refuse. Again,
in places of amusement--in the Casino, at concerts, or near the
fountain--he was never far from the spot where we were sitting. In
fact, WHEREVER we were in the Park, in the forest, or on the
Shlangenberg--one needed but to raise one's eyes and glance around to
catch sight of at least a PORTION of Mr. Astley's frame sticking
out--whether on an adjacent path or behind a bush. Yet never did he
lose any chance of speaking to myself; and, one morning when we had
met, and exchanged a couple of words, he burst out in his usual abrupt
way, without saying "Good-morning."

"That Mlle. Blanche," he said. "Well, I have seen a good many women
like her."

After that he was silent as he looked me meaningly in the face. What he
meant I did not know, but to my glance of inquiry he returned only a
dry nod, and a reiterated "It is so." Presently, however, he resumed:

"Does Mlle. Polina like flowers?"

"I really cannot say," was my reply.

"What? You cannot say?" he cried in great astonishment.

"No; I have never noticed whether she does so or not," I repeated with
a smile.

"Hm! Then I have an idea in my mind," he concluded. Lastly, with a nod,
he walked away with a pleased expression on his face. The conversation
had been carried on in execrable French.



IV

Today has been a day of folly, stupidity, and ineptness. The time is
now eleven o'clock in the evening, and I am sitting in my room and
thinking. It all began, this morning, with my being forced to go and
play roulette for Polina Alexandrovna. When she handed me over her
store of six hundred gulden I exacted two conditions--namely, that I
should not go halves with her in her winnings, if any (that is to say,
I should not take anything for myself), and that she should explain to
me, that same evening, why it was so necessary for her to win, and how
much was the sum which she needed. For, I could not suppose that she
was doing all this merely for the sake of money. Yet clearly she did
need some money, and that as soon as possible, and for a special
purpose. Well, she promised to explain matters, and I departed. There
was a tremendous crowd in the gaming-rooms. What an arrogant, greedy
crowd it was! I pressed forward towards the middle of the room until I
had secured a seat at a croupier's elbow. Then I began to play in timid
fashion, venturing only twenty or thirty gulden at a time. Meanwhile, I
observed and took notes. It seemed to me that calculation was
superfluous, and by no means possessed of the importance which certain
other players attached to it, even though they sat with ruled papers in
their hands, whereon they set down the coups, calculated the chances,
reckoned, staked, and--lost exactly as we more simple mortals did who
played without any reckoning at all.

However, I deduced from the scene one conclusion which seemed to me
reliable--namely, that in the flow of fortuitous chances there is, if
not a system, at all events a sort of order. This, of course, is a very
strange thing. For instance, after a dozen middle figures there would
always occur a dozen or so outer ones. Suppose the ball stopped twice
at a dozen outer figures; it would then pass to a dozen of the first
ones, and then, again, to a dozen of the middle ciphers, and fall upon
them three or four times, and then revert to a dozen outers; whence,
after another couple of rounds, the ball would again pass to the first
figures, strike upon them once, and then return thrice to the middle
series--continuing thus for an hour and a half, or two hours. One,
three, two: one, three, two. It was all very curious. Again, for the
whole of a day or a morning the red would alternate with the black, but
almost without any order, and from moment to moment, so that scarcely
two consecutive rounds would end upon either the one or the other. Yet,
next day, or, perhaps, the next evening, the red alone would turn up,
and attain a run of over two score, and continue so for quite a length
of time--say, for a whole day. Of these circumstances the majority were
pointed out to me by Mr. Astley, who stood by the gaming-table the
whole morning, yet never once staked in person.

For myself, I lost all that I had on me, and with great speed. To begin
with, I staked two hundred gulden on "even," and won. Then I staked the
same amount again, and won: and so on some two or three times. At one
moment I must have had in my hands--gathered there within a space of
five minutes--about 4000 gulden. That, of course, was the proper moment
for me to have departed, but there arose in me a strange sensation as
of a challenge to Fate--as of a wish to deal her a blow on the cheek,
and to put out my tongue at her. Accordingly I set down the largest
stake allowed by the rules--namely, 4000 gulden--and lost. Fired by
this mishap, I pulled out all the money left to me, staked it all on
the same venture, and--again lost! Then I rose from the table, feeling
as though I were stupefied. What had happened to me I did not know;
but, before luncheon I told Polina of my losses--until which time I
walked about the Park.

At luncheon I was as excited as I had been at the meal three days ago.
Mlle. Blanche and the Frenchman were lunching with us, and it appeared
that the former had been to the Casino that morning, and had seen my
exploits there. So now she showed me more attention when talking to me;
while, for his part, the Frenchman approached me, and asked outright if
it had been my own money that I had lost. He appeared to be suspicious
as to something being on foot between Polina and myself, but I merely
fired up, and replied that the money had been all my own.

At this the General seemed extremely surprised, and asked me whence I
had procured it; whereupon I replied that, though I had begun only with
100 gulden, six or seven rounds had increased my capital to 5000 or
6000 gulden, and that subsequently I had lost the whole in two rounds.

All this, of course, was plausible enough. During my recital I glanced
at Polina, but nothing was to be discerned on her face. However, she
had allowed me to fire up without correcting me, and from that I
concluded that it was my cue to fire up, and to conceal the fact that I
had been playing on her behalf. "At all events," I thought to myself,
"she, in her turn, has promised to give me an explanation to-night, and
to reveal to me something or another."

Although the General appeared to be taking stock of me, he said
nothing. Yet I could see uneasiness and annoyance in his face. Perhaps
his straitened circumstances made it hard for him to have to hear of
piles of gold passing through the hands of an irresponsible fool like
myself within the space of a quarter of an hour. Now, I have an idea
that, last night, he and the Frenchman had a sharp encounter with one
another. At all events they closeted themselves together, and then had
a long and vehement discussion; after which the Frenchman departed in
what appeared to be a passion, but returned, early this morning, to
renew the combat. On hearing of my losses, however, he only remarked
with a sharp, and even a malicious, air that "a man ought to go more
carefully." Next, for some reason or another, he added that, "though a
great many Russians go in for gambling, they are no good at the game."

"I think that roulette was devised specially for Russians," I retorted;
and when the Frenchman smiled contemptuously at my reply I further
remarked that I was sure I was right; also that, speaking of Russians
in the capacity of gamblers, I had far more blame for them than
praise--of that he could be quite sure.

"Upon what do you base your opinion?" he inquired.

"Upon the fact that to the virtues and merits of the civilised
Westerner there has become historically added--though this is not his
chief point--a capacity for acquiring capital; whereas, not only is the
Russian incapable of acquiring capital, but also he exhausts it
wantonly and of sheer folly. None the less we Russians often need
money; wherefore, we are glad of, and greatly devoted to, a method of
acquisition like roulette--whereby, in a couple of hours, one may grow
rich without doing any work. This method, I repeat, has a great
attraction for us, but since we play in wanton fashion, and without
taking any trouble, we almost invariably lose."

"To a certain extent that is true," assented the Frenchman with a
self-satisfied air.

"Oh no, it is not true," put in the General sternly. "And you," he
added to me, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself for traducing your
own country!"

"I beg pardon," I said. "Yet it would be difficult to say which is the
worst of the two--Russian ineptitude or the German method of growing
rich through honest toil."

"What an extraordinary idea," cried the General.

"And what a RUSSIAN idea!" added the Frenchman.

I smiled, for I was rather glad to have a quarrel with them.

"I would rather live a wandering life in tents," I cried, "than bow the
knee to a German idol!"

"To WHAT idol?" exclaimed the General, now seriously angry.

"To the German method of heaping up riches. I have not been here very
long, but I can tell you that what I have seen and verified makes my
Tartar blood boil. Good Lord! I wish for no virtues of that kind.
Yesterday I went for a walk of about ten versts; and, everywhere I
found that things were even as we read of them in good German
picture-books--that every house has its 'Fater,' who is horribly
beneficent and extraordinarily honourable. So honourable is he that it
is dreadful to have anything to do with him; and I cannot bear people
of that sort. Each such 'Fater' has his family, and in the evenings
they read improving books aloud. Over their roof-trees there murmur
elms and chestnuts; the sun has sunk to his rest; a stork is roosting
on the gable; and all is beautifully poetic and touching. Do not be
angry, General. Let me tell you something that is even more touching
than that. I can remember how, of an evening, my own father, now dead,
used to sit under the lime trees in his little garden, and to read
books aloud to myself and my mother. Yes, I know how things ought to be
done. Yet every German family is bound to slavery and to submission to
its 'Fater.' They work like oxen, and amass wealth like Jews. Suppose
the 'Fater' has put by a certain number of gulden which he hands over
to his eldest son, in order that the said son may acquire a trade or a
small plot of land. Well, one result is to deprive the daughter of a
dowry, and so leave her among the unwedded. For the same reason, the
parents will have to sell the younger son into bondage or the ranks of
the army, in order that he may earn more towards the family capital.
Yes, such things ARE done, for I have been making inquiries on the
subject. It is all done out of sheer rectitude--out of a rectitude
which is magnified to the point of the younger son believing that he
has been RIGHTLY sold, and that it is simply idyllic for the victim to
rejoice when he is made over into pledge. What more have I to tell?
Well, this--that matters bear just as hardly upon the eldest son.
Perhaps he has his Gretchen to whom his heart is bound; but he cannot
marry her, for the reason that he has not yet amassed sufficient
gulden. So, the pair wait on in a mood of sincere and virtuous
expectation, and smilingly deposit themselves in pawn the while.
Gretchen's cheeks grow sunken, and she begins to wither; until at last,
after some twenty years, their substance has multiplied, and sufficient
gulden have been honourably and virtuously accumulated. Then the
'Fater' blesses his forty-year-old heir and the thirty-five-year-old
Gretchen with the sunken bosom and the scarlet nose; after which he
bursts, into tears, reads the pair a lesson on morality, and dies. In
turn the eldest son becomes a virtuous 'Fater,' and the old story
begins again. In fifty or sixty years' time the grandson of the
original 'Fater' will have amassed a considerable sum; and that sum he
will hand over to, his son, and the latter to HIS son, and so on for
several generations; until at length there will issue a Baron
Rothschild, or a 'Hoppe and Company,' or the devil knows what! Is it
not a beautiful spectacle--the spectacle of a century or two of
inherited labour, patience, intellect, rectitude, character,
perseverance, and calculation, with a stork sitting on the roof above
it all? What is more; they think there can never be anything better
than this; wherefore, from their point of view they begin to judge the
rest of the world, and to censure all who are at fault--that is to say,
who are not exactly like themselves. Yes, there you have it in a
nutshell. For my own part, I would rather grow fat after the Russian
manner, or squander my whole substance at roulette. I have no wish to
be 'Hoppe and Company' at the end of five generations. I want the money
for MYSELF, for in no way do I look upon my personality as necessary
to, or meet to be given over to, capital. I may be wrong, but there you
have it. Those are MY views."

"How far you may be right in what you have said I do not know,"
remarked the General moodily; "but I DO know that you are becoming an
insufferable farceur whenever you are given the least chance."

As usual, he left his sentence unfinished. Indeed, whenever he embarked
upon anything that in the least exceeded the limits of daily
small-talk, he left unfinished what he was saying. The Frenchman had
listened to me contemptuously, with a slight protruding of his eyes;
but, he could not have understood very much of my harangue. As for
Polina, she had looked on with serene indifference. She seemed to have
heard neither my voice nor any other during the progress of the meal.



V

Yes, she had been extraordinarily meditative. Yet, on leaving the
table, she immediately ordered me to accompany her for a walk. We took
the children with us, and set out for the fountain in the Park.

I was in such an irritated frame of mind that in rude and abrupt
fashion I blurted out a question as to "why our Marquis de Griers had
ceased to accompany her for strolls, or to speak to her for days
together."

"Because he is a brute," she replied in rather a curious way. It was
the first time that I had heard her speak so of De Griers:
consequently, I was momentarily awed into silence by this expression of
resentment.

"Have you noticed, too, that today he is by no means on good terms with
the General?" I went on.

"Yes--and I suppose you want to know why," she replied with dry
captiousness. "You are aware, are you not, that the General is
mortgaged to the Marquis, with all his property? Consequently, if the
General's mother does not die, the Frenchman will become the absolute
possessor of everything which he now holds only in pledge."

"Then it is really the case that everything is mortgaged? I have heard
rumours to that effect, but was unaware how far they might be true."

"Yes, they ARE true. What then?"

"Why, it will be a case of 'Farewell, Mlle. Blanche,'" I remarked; "for
in such an event she would never become Madame General. Do you know, I
believe the old man is so much in love with her that he will shoot
himself if she should throw him over. At his age it is a dangerous
thing to fall in love."

"Yes, something, I believe, WILL happen to him," assented Polina
thoughtfully.

"And what a fine thing it all is!" I continued. "Could anything be more
abominable than the way in which she has agreed to marry for money
alone? Not one of the decencies has been observed; the whole affair has
taken place without the least ceremony. And as for the grandmother,
what could be more comical, yet more dastardly, than the sending of
telegram after telegram to know if she is dead? What do you think of
it, Polina Alexandrovna?"

"Yes, it is very horrible," she interrupted with a shudder.
"Consequently, I am the more surprised that YOU should be so cheerful.
What are YOU so pleased about? About the fact that you have gone and
lost my money?"

"What? The money that you gave me to lose? I told you I should never
win for other people--least of all for you. I obeyed you simply because
you ordered me to; but you must not blame me for the result. I warned
you that no good would ever come of it. You seem much depressed at
having lost your money. Why do you need it so greatly?"

"Why do YOU ask me these questions?"

"Because you promised to explain matters to me. Listen. I am certain
that, as soon as ever I 'begin to play for myself' (and I still have
120 gulden left), I shall win. You can then take of me what you
require."

She made a contemptuous grimace.

"You must not be angry with me," I continued, "for making such a
proposal. I am so conscious of being only a nonentity in your eyes that
you need not mind accepting money from me. A gift from me could not
possibly offend you. Moreover, it was I who lost your gulden."

She glanced at me, but, seeing that I was in an irritable, sarcastic
mood, changed the subject.

"My affairs cannot possibly interest you," she said. "Still, if you DO
wish to know, I am in debt. I borrowed some money, and must pay it back
again. I have a curious, senseless idea that I am bound to win at the
gaming-tables. Why I think so I cannot tell, but I do think so, and
with some assurance. Perhaps it is because of that assurance that I now
find myself without any other resource."

"Or perhaps it is because it is so NECESSARY for you to win. It is like
a drowning man catching at a straw. You yourself will agree that,
unless he were drowning he would not mistake a straw for the trunk of a
tree."

Polina looked surprised.

"What?" she said. "Do not you also hope something from it? Did you not
tell me again and again, two weeks ago, that you were certain of
winning at roulette if you played here? And did you not ask me not to
consider you a fool for doing so? Were you joking? You cannot have
been, for I remember that you spoke with a gravity which forbade the
idea of your jesting."

"True," I replied gloomily. "I always felt certain that I should win.
Indeed, what you say makes me ask myself--Why have my absurd, senseless
losses of today raised a doubt in my mind? Yet I am still positive
that, so soon as ever I begin to play for myself, I shall infallibly
win."

"And why are you so certain?"

"To tell the truth, I do not know. I only know that I must win--that it
is the one resource I have left. Yes, why do I feel so assured on the
point?"

"Perhaps because one cannot help winning if one is fanatically certain
of doing so."

"Yet I dare wager that you do not think me capable of serious feeling
in the matter?"

"I do not care whether you are so or not," answered Polina with calm
indifference. "Well, since you ask me, I DO doubt your ability to take
anything seriously. You are capable of worrying, but not deeply. You
are too ill-regulated and unsettled a person for that. But why do you
want money? Not a single one of the reasons which you have given can be
looked upon as serious."

"By the way," I interrupted, "you say you want to pay off a debt. It
must be a large one. Is it to the Frenchman?"

"What do you mean by asking all these questions? You are very clever
today. Surely you are not drunk?"

"You know that you and I stand on no ceremony, and that sometimes I put
to you very plain questions. I repeat that I am your slave--and slaves
cannot be shamed or offended."

"You talk like a child. It is always possible to comport oneself with
dignity. If one has a quarrel it ought to elevate rather than to
degrade one."

"A maxim straight from the copybook! Suppose I CANNOT comport myself
with dignity. By that I mean that, though I am a man of self-respect, I
am unable to carry off a situation properly. Do you know the reason? It
is because we Russians are too richly and multifariously gifted to be
able at once to find the proper mode of expression. It is all a
question of mode. Most of us are so bounteously endowed with intellect
as to require also a spice of genius to choose the right form of
behaviour. And genius is lacking in us for the reason that so little
genius at all exists. It belongs only to the French--though a few other
Europeans have elaborated their forms so well as to be able to figure
with extreme dignity, and yet be wholly undignified persons. That is
why, with us, the mode is so all-important. The Frenchman may receive
an insult--a real, a venomous insult: yet, he will not so much as
frown. But a tweaking of the nose he cannot bear, for the reason that
such an act is an infringement of the accepted, of the time-hallowed
order of decorum. That is why our good ladies are so fond of
Frenchmen--the Frenchman's manners, they say, are perfect! But in my
opinion there is no such thing as a Frenchman's manners. The Frenchman
is only a bird--the coq gaulois. At the same time, as I am not a woman,
I do not properly understand the question. Cocks may be excellent
birds.  If I am wrong you must stop me. You ought to stop and correct
me more often when I am speaking to you, for I am too apt to say
everything that is in my head.

"You see, I have lost my manners. I agree that I have none, nor yet any
dignity. I will tell you why. I set no store upon such things.
Everything in me has undergone a cheek. You know the reason. I have not
a single human thought in my head. For a long while I have been
ignorant of what is going on in the world--here or in Russia. I have
been to Dresden, yet am completely in the dark as to what Dresden is
like. You know the cause of my obsession. I have no hope now, and am a
mere cipher in your eyes; wherefore, I tell you outright that wherever
I go I see only you--all the rest is a matter of indifference.

"Why or how I have come to love you I do not know. It may be that you
are not altogether fair to look upon. Do you know, I am ignorant even
as to what your face is like. In all probability, too, your heart is
not comely, and it is possible that your mind is wholly ignoble."

"And because you do not believe in my nobility of soul you think to
purchase me with money?" she said.

"WHEN have I thought to do so?" was my reply.

"You are losing the thread of the argument. If you do not wish to
purchase me, at all events you wish to purchase my respect."

"Not at all. I have told you that I find it difficult to explain
myself. You are hard upon me. Do not be angry at my chattering. You
know why you ought not to be angry with me--that I am simply an
imbecile. However, I do not mind if you ARE angry. Sitting in my room,
I need but to think of you, to imagine to myself the rustle of your
dress, and at once I fall almost to biting my hands. Why should you be
angry with me? Because I call myself your slave? Revel, I pray you, in
my slavery--revel in it. Do you know that sometimes I could kill
you?--not because I do not love you, or am jealous of you, but, because
I feel as though I could simply devour you... You are laughing!"

"No, I am not," she retorted. "But I order you, nevertheless, to be
silent."

She stopped, well nigh breathless with anger. God knows, she may not
have been a beautiful woman, yet I loved to see her come to a halt like
this, and was therefore, the more fond of arousing her temper. Perhaps
she divined this, and for that very reason gave way to rage. I said as
much to her.

"What rubbish!" she cried with a shudder.

"I do not care," I continued. "Also, do you know that it is not safe
for us to take walks together? Often I have a feeling that I should
like to strike you, to disfigure you, to strangle you. Are you certain
that it will never come to that? You are driving me to frenzy. Am I
afraid of a scandal, or of your anger? Why should I fear your anger? I
love without hope, and know that hereafter I shall love you a thousand
times more. If ever I should kill you I should have to kill myself too.
But I shall put off doing so as long as possible, for I wish to
continue enjoying the unbearable pain which your coldness gives me. Do
you know a very strange thing? It is that, with every day, my love for
you increases--though that would seem to be almost an impossibility.
Why should I not become a fatalist? Remember how, on the third day that
we ascended the Shlangenberg, I was moved to whisper in your ear: 'Say
but the word, and I will leap into the abyss.' Had you said it, I
should have leapt. Do you not believe me?"

"What stupid rubbish!" she cried.

"I care not whether it be wise or stupid," I cried in return. "I only
know that in your presence I must speak, speak, speak. Therefore, I am
speaking. I lose all conceit when I am with you, and everything ceases
to matter."

"Why should I have wanted you to leap from the Shlangenberg?" she said
drily, and (I think) with wilful offensiveness. "THAT would have been
of no use to me."

"Splendid!" I shouted. "I know well that you must have used the words
'of no use' in order to crush me. I can see through you. 'Of no use,'
did you say? Why, to give pleasure is ALWAYS of use; and, as for
barbarous, unlimited power--even if it be only over a fly--why, it is a
kind of luxury. Man is a despot by nature, and loves to torture. You,
in particular, love to do so."

I remember that at this moment she looked at me in a peculiar way. The
fact is that my face must have been expressing all the maze of
senseless, gross sensations which were seething within me. To this day
I can remember, word for word, the conversation as I have written it
down. My eyes were suffused with blood, and the foam had caked itself
on my lips. Also, on my honour I swear that, had she bidden me cast
myself from the summit of the Shlangenberg, I should have done it. Yes,
had she bidden me in jest, or only in contempt and with a spit in my
face, I should have cast myself down.

"Oh no! Why so? I believe you," she said, but in such a manner--in the
manner of which, at times, she was a mistress--and with such a note of
disdain and viperish arrogance in her tone, that God knows I could have
killed her.

Yes, at that moment she stood in peril. I had not lied to her about
that.

"Surely you are not a coward?" suddenly she asked me.

"I do not know," I replied. "Perhaps I am, but I do not know. I have
long given up thinking about such things."

"If I said to you, 'Kill that man,' would you kill him?"

"Whom?"

"Whomsoever I wish?"

"The Frenchman?"

"Do not ask me questions; return me answers. I repeat, whomsoever I
wish? I desire to see if you were speaking seriously just now."

She awaited my reply with such gravity and impatience that I found the
situation unpleasant.

"Do YOU, rather, tell me," I said, "what is going on here? Why do you
seem half-afraid of me? I can see for myself what is wrong. You are the
step-daughter of a ruined and insensate man who is smitten with love
for this devil of a Blanche. And there is this Frenchman, too, with his
mysterious influence over you. Yet, you actually ask me such a
question! If you do not tell me how things stand, I shall have to put
in my oar and do something. Are you ashamed to be frank with me? Are
you shy of me?"

"I am not going to talk to you on that subject. I have asked you a
question, and am waiting for an answer."

"Well, then--I will kill whomsoever you wish," I said. "But are you
REALLY going to bid me do such deeds?"

"Why should you think that I am going to let you off? I shall bid you
do it, or else renounce me. Could you ever do the latter? No, you know
that you couldn't. You would first kill whom I had bidden you, and then
kill ME for having dared to send you away!"

Something seemed to strike upon my brain as I heard these words. Of
course, at the time I took them half in jest and half as a challenge;
yet, she had spoken them with great seriousness. I felt thunderstruck
that she should so express herself, that she should assert such a right
over me, that she should assume such authority and say outright:
"Either you kill whom I bid you, or I will have nothing more to do with
you." Indeed, in what she had said there was something so cynical and
unveiled as to pass all bounds. For how could she ever regard me as the
same after the killing was done? This was more than slavery and
abasement; it was sufficient to bring a man back to his right senses.
Yet, despite the outrageous improbability of our conversation, my heart
shook within me.

Suddenly, she burst out laughing. We were seated on a bench near the
spot where the children were playing--just opposite the point in the
alley-way before the Casino where the carriages drew up in order to set
down their occupants.

"Do you see that fat Baroness?" she cried. "It is the Baroness
Burmergelm. She arrived three days ago. Just look at her husband--that
tall, wizened Prussian there, with the stick in his hand. Do you
remember how he stared at us the other day? Well, go to the Baroness,
take off your hat to her, and say something in French."

"Why?"

"Because you have sworn that you would leap from the Shlangenberg for
my sake, and that you would kill any one whom I might bid you kill.
Well, instead of such murders and tragedies, I wish only for a good
laugh. Go without answering me, and let me see the Baron give you a
sound thrashing with his stick."

"Then you throw me out a challenge?--you think that I will not do it?"

"Yes, I do challenge you. Go, for such is my will."

"Then I WILL go, however mad be your fancy. Only, look here: shall you
not be doing the General a great disservice, as well as, through him, a
great disservice to yourself? It is not about myself I am worrying--it
is about you and the General. Why, for a mere fancy, should I go and
insult a woman?"

"Ah! Then I can see that you are only a trifler," she said
contemptuously. "Your eyes are swimming with blood--but only because
you have drunk a little too much at luncheon. Do I not know that what I
have asked you to do is foolish and wrong, and that the General will be
angry about it? But I want to have a good laugh, all the same. I want
that, and nothing else. Why should you insult a woman, indeed? Well,
you will be given a sound thrashing for so doing."

I turned away, and went silently to do her bidding. Of course the thing
was folly, but I could not get out of it. I remember that, as I
approached the Baroness, I felt as excited as a schoolboy. I was in a
frenzy, as though I were drunk.



VI

Two days have passed since that day of lunacy. What a noise and a fuss
and a chattering and an uproar there was! And what a welter of
unseemliness and disorder and stupidity and bad manners! And I the
cause of it all! Yet part of the scene was also ridiculous--at all
events to myself it was so. I am not quite sure what was the matter
with me--whether I was merely stupefied or whether I purposely broke
loose and ran amok. At times my mind seems all confused; while at other
times I seem almost to be back in my childhood, at the school desk, and
to have done the deed simply out of mischief.

It all came of Polina--yes, of Polina. But for her, there might never
have been a fracas. Or perhaps I did the deed in a fit of despair
(though it may be foolish of me to think so)? What there is so
attractive about her I cannot think. Yet there IS something attractive
about her--something passing fair, it would seem. Others besides myself
she has driven to distraction. She is tall and straight, and very slim.
Her body looks as though it could be tied into a knot, or bent double,
like a cord. The imprint of her foot is long and narrow. It is, a
maddening imprint--yes, simply a maddening one! And her hair has a
reddish tint about it, and her eyes are like cat's eyes--though able
also to glance with proud, disdainful mien. On the evening of my first
arrival, four months ago, I remember that she was sitting and holding
an animated conversation with De Griers in the salon. And the way in
which she looked at him was such that later, when I retired to my own
room upstairs, I kept fancying that she had smitten him in the
face--that she had smitten him right on the cheek, so peculiar had been
her look as she stood confronting him. Ever since that evening I have
loved her.

But to my tale.

I stepped from the path into the carriage-way, and took my stand in the
middle of it. There I awaited the Baron and the Baroness. When they
were but a few paces distant from me I took off my hat, and bowed.

I remember that the Baroness was clad in a voluminous silk dress, pale
grey in colour, and adorned with flounces and a crinoline and train.
Also, she was short and inordinately stout, while her gross, flabby
chin completely concealed her neck. Her face was purple, and the little
eyes in it had an impudent, malicious expression. Yet she walked as
though she were conferring a favour upon everybody by so doing. As for
the Baron, he was tall, wizened, bony-faced after the German fashion,
spectacled, and, apparently, about forty-five years of age. Also, he
had legs which seemed to begin almost at his chest--or, rather, at his
chin! Yet, for all his air of peacock-like conceit, his clothes sagged
a little, and his face wore a sheepish air which might have passed for
profundity.

These details I noted within a space of a few seconds.

At first my bow and the fact that I had my hat in my hand barely caught
their attention. The Baron only scowled a little, and the Baroness
swept straight on.

"Madame la Baronne," said I, loudly and distinctly--embroidering each
word, as it were--"j'ai l'honneur d'etre votre esclave."

Then I bowed again, put on my hat, and walked past the Baron with a
rude smile on my face.

Polina had ordered me merely to take off my hat: the bow and the
general effrontery were of my own invention. God knows what instigated
me to perpetrate the outrage! In my frenzy I felt as though I were
walking on air.

"Hein!" ejaculated--or, rather, growled--the Baron as he turned towards
me in angry surprise.

I too turned round, and stood waiting in pseudo-courteous expectation.
Yet still I wore on my face an impudent smile as I gazed at him. He
seemed to hesitate, and his brows contracted to their utmost limits.
Every moment his visage was growing darker. The Baroness also turned in
my direction, and gazed at me in wrathful perplexity, while some of the
passers-by also began to stare at us, and others of them halted
outright.

"Hein!" the Baron vociferated again, with a redoubled growl and a note
of growing wrath in his voice.

"Ja wohl!" I replied, still looking him in the eyes.

"Sind sie rasend?" he exclaimed, brandishing his stick, and,
apparently, beginning to feel nervous. Perhaps it was my costume which
intimidated him, for I was well and fashionably dressed, after the
manner of a man who belongs to indisputably good society.

"Ja wo-o-ohl!" cried I again with all my might with a longdrawn rolling
of the "ohl" sound after the fashion of the Berliners (who constantly
use the phrase "Ja wohl!" in conversation, and more or less prolong the
syllable "ohl" according as they desire to express different shades of
meaning or of mood).

At this the Baron and the Baroness faced sharply about, and almost fled
in their alarm. Some of the bystanders gave vent to excited
exclamations, and others remained staring at me in astonishment. But I
do not remember the details very well.

Wheeling quietly about, I returned in the direction of Polina
Alexandrovna. But, when I had got within a hundred paces of her seat, I
saw her rise and set out with the children towards the hotel.

At the portico I caught up to her.

"I have perpetrated the--the piece of idiocy," I said as I came level
with her.

"Have you? Then you can take the consequences," she replied without so
much as looking at me. Then she moved towards the staircase.

I spent the rest of the evening walking in the park. Thence I passed
into the forest, and walked on until I found myself in a neighbouring
principality. At a wayside restaurant I partook of an omelette and some
wine, and was charged for the idyllic repast a thaler and a half.

Not until eleven o'clock did I return home--to find a summons awaiting
me from the General.

Our party occupied two suites in the hotel; each of which contained two
rooms. The first (the larger suite) comprised a salon and a
smoking-room, with, adjoining the latter, the General's study. It was
here that he was awaiting me as he stood posed in a majestic attitude
beside his writing-table. Lolling on a divan close by was De Griers.

"My good sir," the General began, "may I ask you what this is that you
have gone and done?"

"I should be glad," I replied, "if we could come straight to the point.
Probably you are referring to my encounter of today with a German?"

"With a German? Why, the German was the Baron Burmergelm--a most
important personage! I hear that you have been rude both to him and to
the Baroness?"

"No, I have not."

"But I understand that you simply terrified them, my good sir?" shouted
the General.

"Not in the least," I replied. "You must know that when I was in Berlin
I frequently used to hear the Berliners repeat, and repellently
prolong, a certain phrase--namely, 'Ja wohl!'; and, happening to meet
this couple in the carriage-drive, I found, for some reason or another,
that this phrase suddenly recurred to my memory, and exercised a
rousing effect upon my spirits. Moreover, on the three previous
occasions that I have met the Baroness she has walked towards me as
though I were a worm which could easily be crushed with the foot. Not
unnaturally, I too possess a measure of self-respect; wherefore, on
THIS occasion I took off my hat, and said politely (yes, I assure you
it was said politely): 'Madame, j'ai l'honneur d'etre votre esclave.'
Then the Baron turned round, and said 'Hein!'; whereupon I felt moved
to ejaculate in answer 'Ja wohl!' Twice I shouted it at him--the first
time in an ordinary tone, and the second time with the greatest
prolonging of the words of which I was capable. That is all."

I must confess that this puerile explanation gave me great pleasure. I
felt a strong desire to overlay the incident with an even added measure
of grossness; so, the further I proceeded, the more did the gusto of my
proceeding increase.

"You are only making fun of me!" vociferated the General as, turning to
the Frenchman, he declared that my bringing about of the incident had
been gratuitous. De Griers smiled contemptuously, and shrugged his
shoulders.

"Do not think THAT," I put in. "It was not so at all. I grant you that
my behaviour was bad--I fully confess that it was so, and make no
secret of the fact. I would even go so far as to grant you that my
behaviour might well be called stupid and indecent tomfoolery; but,
MORE than that it was not. Also, let me tell you that I am very sorry
for my conduct. Yet there is one circumstance which, in my eyes, almost
absolves me from regret in the matter. Of late--that is to say, for the
last two or three weeks--I have been feeling not at all well. That is
to say, I have been in a sick, nervous, irritable, fanciful condition,
so that I have periodically lost control over myself. For instance, on
more than one occasion I have tried to pick a quarrel even with
Monsieur le Marquise here; and, under the circumstances, he had no
choice but to answer me. In short, I have recently been showing signs
of ill-health. Whether the Baroness Burmergelm will take this
circumstance into consideration when I come to beg her pardon (for I do
intend to make her amends) I do not know; but I doubt if she will, and
the less so since, so far as I know, the circumstance is one which, of
late, has begun to be abused in the legal world, in that advocates in
criminal cases have taken to justifying their clients on the ground
that, at the moment of the crime, they (the clients) were unconscious
of what they were doing--that, in short, they were out of health. 'My
client committed the murder--that is true; but he has no recollection
of having committed it.' And doctors actually support these advocates
by affirming that there really is such a malady--that there really can
arise temporary delusions which make a man remember nothing of a given
deed, or only a half or a quarter of it! But the Baron and Baroness are
members of an older generation, as well as Prussian Junkers and
landowners. To them such a process in the medico-judicial world will be
unknown, and therefore, they are the more unlikely to accept any such
explanation. What is YOUR opinion about it, General?"

"Enough, sir!" he thundered with barely restrained fury. "Enough, I
say! Once and for all I must endeavour to rid myself of you and your
impertinence. To justify yourself in the eyes of the Baron and Baroness
will be impossible. Any intercourse with you, even though it be
confined to a begging of their pardons, they would look upon as a
degradation. I may tell you that, on learning that you formed part of,
my household, the Baron approached me in the Casino, and demanded of me
additional satisfaction. Do you understand, then, what it is that you
have entailed upon me--upon ME, my good sir? You have entailed upon me
the fact of my being forced to sue humbly to the Baron, and to give him
my word of honour that this very day you shall cease to belong to my
establishment!"

"Excuse me, General," I interrupted, "but did he make an express point
of it that I should 'cease to belong to your establishment,' as you
call it?"

"No; I, of my own initiative, thought that I ought to afford him that
satisfaction; and, with it he was satisfied. So we must part, good sir.
It is my duty to hand over to you forty gulden, three florins, as per
the accompanying statement. Here is the money, and here the account,
which you are at liberty to verify. Farewell. From henceforth we are
strangers. From you I have never had anything but trouble and
unpleasantness. I am about to call the landlord, and explain to him
that from tomorrow onwards I shall no longer be responsible for your
hotel expenses. Also I have the honour to remain your obedient servant."

I took the money and the account (which was indicted in pencil), and,
bowing low to the General, said to him very gravely:

"The matter cannot end here. I regret very much that you should have
been put to unpleasantness at the Baron's hands; but, the fault (pardon
me) is your own. How came you to answer for me to the Baron? And what
did you mean by saying that I formed part of your household? I am
merely your family tutor--not a son of yours, nor yet your ward, nor a
person of any kind for whose acts you need be responsible. I am a
judicially competent person, a man of twenty-five years of age, a
university graduate, a gentleman, and, until I met yourself, a complete
stranger to you. Only my boundless respect for your merits restrains me
from demanding satisfaction at your hands, as well as a further
explanation as to the reasons which have led you to take it upon
yourself to answer for my conduct."

So struck was he with my words that, spreading out his hands, he turned
to the Frenchman, and interpreted to him that I had challenged himself
(the General) to a duel. The Frenchman laughed aloud.

"Nor do I intend to let the Baron off," I continued calmly, but with
not a little discomfiture at De Griers' merriment. "And since you,
General, have today been so good as to listen to the Baron's
complaints, and to enter into his concerns--since you have made
yourself a participator in the affair--I have the honour to inform you
that, tomorrow morning at the latest, I shall, in my own name, demand
of the said Baron a formal explanation as to the reasons which have led
him to disregard the fact that the matter lies between him and myself
alone, and to put a slight upon me by referring it to another person,
as though I were unworthy to answer for my own conduct."

Then there happened what I had foreseen. The General on hearing of this
further intended outrage, showed the white feather.

"What?" he cried. "Do you intend to go on with this damned nonsense? Do
you not realise the harm that it is doing me? I beg of you not to laugh
at me, sir--not to laugh at me, for we have police authorities here
who, out of respect for my rank, and for that of the Baron...  In
short, sir, I swear to you that I will have you arrested, and marched
out of the place, to prevent any further brawling on your part. Do you
understand what I say?" He was almost breathless with anger, as well as
in a terrible fright.

"General," I replied with that calmness which he never could abide,
"one cannot arrest a man for brawling until he has brawled. I have not
so much as begun my explanations to the Baron, and you are altogether
ignorant as to the form and time which my intended procedure is likely
to assume. I wish but to disabuse the Baron of what is, to me, a
shameful supposition--namely, that I am under the guardianship of a
person who is qualified to exercise control over my free will. It is
vain for you to disturb and alarm yourself."

"For God's sake, Alexis Ivanovitch, do put an end to this senseless
scheme of yours!" he muttered, but with a sudden change from a
truculent tone to one of entreaty as he caught me by the hand. "Do you
know what is likely to come of it? Merely further unpleasantness. You
will agree with me, I am sure, that at present I ought to move with
especial care--yes, with very especial care. You cannot be fully aware
of how I am situated. When we leave this place I shall be ready to
receive you back into my household; but, for the time being I-- Well, I
cannot tell you all my reasons." With that he wound up in a despairing
voice: "O Alexis Ivanovitch, Alexis Ivanovitch!"

I moved towards the door--begging him to be calm, and promising that
everything should be done decently and in order; whereafter I departed.

Russians, when abroad, are over-apt to play the poltroon, to watch all
their words, and to wonder what people are thinking of their conduct,
or whether such and such a thing is 'comme il faut.' In short, they are
over-apt to cosset themselves, and to lay claim to great importance.
Always they prefer the form of behaviour which has once and for all
become accepted and established. This they will follow slavishly
whether in hotels, on promenades, at meetings, or when on a journey.
But the General had avowed to me that, over and above such
considerations as these, there were circumstances which compelled him
to "move with especial care at present", and that the fact had actually
made him poor-spirited and a coward--it had made him altogether change
his tone towards me. This fact I took into my calculations, and duly
noted it, for, of course, he MIGHT apply to the authorities tomorrow,
and it behoved me to go carefully.

Yet it was not the General but Polina that I wanted to anger. She had
treated me with such cruelty, and had got me into such a hole, that I
felt a longing to force her to beseech me to stop. Of course, my
tomfoolery might compromise her; yet certain other feelings and desires
had begun to form themselves in my brain. If I was never to rank in her
eyes as anything but a nonentity, it would not greatly matter if I
figured as a draggle-tailed cockerel, and the Baron were to give me a
good thrashing; but, the fact was that I desired to have the laugh of
them all, and to come out myself unscathed. Let people see what they
WOULD see. Let Polina, for once, have a good fright, and be forced to
whistle me to heel again. But, however much she might whistle, she
should see that I was at least no draggle-tailed cockerel!

      *      *      *      *      *

I have just received a surprising piece of news. I have just met our
chambermaid on the stairs, and been informed by her that Maria
Philipovna departed today, by the night train, to stay with a cousin at
Carlsbad. What can that mean? The maid declares that Madame packed her
trunks early in the day. Yet how is it that no one else seems to have
been aware of the circumstance? Or is it that I have been the only
person to be unaware of it? Also, the maid has just told me that, three
days ago, Maria Philipovna had some high words with the General. I
understand, then! Probably the words were concerning Mlle. Blanche.
Certainly something decisive is approaching.



VII

In the morning I sent for the maitre d'hotel, and explained to him
that, in future, my bill was to be rendered to me personally. As a
matter of fact, my expenses had never been so large as to alarm me, nor
to lead me to quit the hotel; while, moreover, I still had 160 gulden
left to me, and--in them--yes, in them, perhaps, riches awaited me. It
was a curious fact, that, though I had not yet won anything at play, I
nevertheless acted, thought, and felt as though I were sure, before
long, to become wealthy--since I could not imagine myself otherwise.

Next, I bethought me, despite the earliness of the hour, of going to
see Mr. Astley, who was staying at the Hotel de l'Angleterre (a
hostelry at no great distance from our own). But suddenly De Griers
entered my room. This had never before happened, for of late that
gentleman and I had stood on the most strained and distant of terms--he
attempting no concealment of his contempt for me (he even made an
express, point of showing it), and I having no reason to desire his
company. In short, I detested him. Consequently, his entry at the
present moment the more astounded me. At once I divined that something
out of the way was on the carpet.

He entered with marked affability, and began by complimenting me on my
room. Then, perceiving that I had my hat in my hands, he inquired
whither I was going so early; and, no sooner did he hear that I was
bound for Mr. Astley's than he stopped, looked grave, and seemed
plunged in thought.

He was a true Frenchman insofar as that, though he could be lively and
engaging when it suited him, he became insufferably dull and wearisome
as soon as ever the need for being lively and engaging had passed.
Seldom is a Frenchman NATURALLY civil: he is civil only as though to
order and of set purpose. Also, if he thinks it incumbent upon him to
be fanciful, original, and out of the way, his fancy always assumes a
foolish, unnatural vein, for the reason that it is compounded of trite,
hackneyed forms. In short, the natural Frenchman is a conglomeration of
commonplace, petty, everyday positiveness, so that he is the most
tedious person in the world.--Indeed, I believe that none but
greenhorns and excessively Russian people feel an attraction towards
the French; for, to any man of sensibility, such a compendium of
outworn forms--a compendium which is built up of drawing-room manners,
expansiveness, and gaiety--becomes at once over-noticeable and
unbearable.

"I have come to see you on business," De Griers began in a very
off-hand, yet polite, tone; "nor will I seek to conceal from you the
fact that I have come in the capacity of an emissary, of an
intermediary, from the General. Having small knowledge of the Russian
tongue, I lost most of what was said last night; but, the General has
now explained matters, and I must confess that--"

"See here, Monsieur de Griers," I interrupted. "I understand that you
have undertaken to act in this affair as an intermediary. Of course I
am only 'un utchitel,' a tutor, and have never claimed to be an
intimate of this household, nor to stand on at all familiar terms with
it. Consequently, I do not know the whole of its circumstances. Yet
pray explain to me this: have you yourself become one of its members,
seeing that you are beginning to take such a part in everything, and
are now present as an intermediary?"

The Frenchman seemed not over-pleased at my question. It was one which
was too outspoken for his taste--and he had no mind to be frank with me.

"I am connected with the General," he said drily, "partly through
business affairs, and partly through special circumstances. My
principal has sent me merely to ask you to forego your intentions of
last evening. What you contemplate is, I have no doubt, very clever;
yet he has charged me to represent to you that you have not the
slightest chance of succeeding in your end, since not only will the
Baron refuse to receive you, but also he (the Baron) has at his
disposal every possible means for obviating further unpleasantness from
you. Surely you can see that yourself? What, then, would be the good of
going on with it all? On the other hand, the General promises that at
the first favourable opportunity he will receive you back into his
household, and, in the meantime, will credit you with your salary--with
'vos appointements.' Surely that will suit you, will it not?"

Very quietly I replied that he (the Frenchman) was labouring under a
delusion; that perhaps, after all, I should not be expelled from the
Baron's presence, but, on the contrary, be listened to; finally, that I
should be glad if Monsieur de Griers would confess that he was now
visiting me merely in order to see how far I intended to go in the
affair.

"Good heavens!" cried de Griers. "Seeing that the General takes such an
interest in the matter, is there anything very unnatural in his
desiring also to know your plans?"

Again I began my explanations, but the Frenchman only fidgeted and
rolled his head about as he listened with an expression of manifest and
unconcealed irony on his face. In short, he adopted a supercilious
attitude. For my own part, I endeavoured to pretend that I took the
affair very seriously. I declared that, since the Baron had gone and
complained of me to the General, as though I were a mere servant of the
General's, he had, in the first place, lost me my post, and, in the
second place, treated me like a person to whom, as to one not qualified
to answer for himself, it was not even worth while to speak. Naturally,
I said, I felt insulted at this. Yet, comprehending as I did,
differences of years, of social status, and so forth (here I could
scarcely help smiling), I was not anxious to bring about further scenes
by going personally to demand or to request satisfaction of the Baron.
All that I felt was that I had a right to go in person and beg the
Baron's and the Baroness's pardon--the more so since, of late, I had
been feeling unwell and unstrung, and had been in a fanciful condition.
And so forth, and so forth. Yet (I continued) the Baron's offensive
behaviour to me of yesterday (that is to say, the fact of his referring
the matter to the General) as well as his insistence that the General
should deprive me of my post, had placed me in such a position that I
could not well express my regret to him (the Baron) and to his good
lady, for the reason that in all probability both he and the Baroness,
with the world at large, would imagine that I was doing so merely
because I hoped, by my action, to recover my post. Hence, I found
myself forced to request the Baron to express to me HIS OWN regrets, as
well as to express them in the most unqualified manner--to say, in
fact, that he had never had any wish to insult me. After the Baron had
done THAT, I should, for my part, at once feel free to express to him,
whole-heartedly and without reserve, my own regrets. "In short," I
declared in conclusion, "my one desire is that the Baron may make it
possible for me to adopt the latter course."

"Oh fie! What refinements and subtleties!" exclaimed De Griers.
"Besides, what have you to express regret for? Confess, Monsieur,
Monsieur--pardon me, but I have forgotten your name--confess, I say,
that all this is merely a plan to annoy the General? Or perhaps, you
have some other and special end in view? Eh?"

"In return you must pardon ME, mon cher Marquis, and tell me what you
have to do with it."

"The General--"

"But what of the General? Last night he said that, for some reason or
another, it behoved him to 'move with especial care at present;'
wherefore, he was feeling nervous. But I did not understand the
reference."

"Yes, there DO exist special reasons for his doing so," assented De
Griers in a conciliatory tone, yet with rising anger. "You are
acquainted with Mlle. de Cominges, are you not?"

"Mlle. Blanche, you mean?"

"Yes, Mlle. Blanche de Cominges. Doubtless you know also that the
General is in love with this young lady, and may even be about to marry
her before he leaves here? Imagine, therefore, what any scene or
scandal would entail upon him!"

"I cannot see that the marriage scheme need, be affected by scenes or
scandals."

"Mais le Baron est si irascible--un caractere prussien, vous savez!
Enfin il fera une querelle d'Allemand."

"I do not care," I replied, "seeing that I no longer belong to his
household" (of set purpose I was trying to talk as senselessly as
possible). "But is it quite settled that Mlle. is to marry the General?
What are they waiting for? Why should they conceal such a matter--at
all events from ourselves, the General's own party?"

"I cannot tell you. The marriage is not yet a settled affair, for they
are awaiting news from Russia. The General has business transactions to
arrange."

"Ah! Connected, doubtless, with madame his mother?"

De Griers shot at me a glance of hatred.

"To cut things short," he interrupted, "I have complete confidence in
your native politeness, as well as in your tact and good sense. I feel
sure that you will do what I suggest, even if it is only for the sake
of this family which has received you as a kinsman into its bosom and
has always loved and respected you."

"Be so good as to observe," I remarked, "that the same family has just
EXPELLED me from its bosom. All that you are saying you are saying but
for show; but, when people have just said to you, 'Of course we do not
wish to turn you out, yet, for the sake of appearance's, you must
PERMIT yourself to be turned out,' nothing can matter very much."

"Very well, then," he said, in a sterner and more arrogant tone.
"Seeing that my solicitations have had no effect upon you, it is my
duty to mention that other measures will be taken. There exist here
police, you must remember, and this very day they shall send you
packing. Que diable! To think of a blanc bec like yourself challenging
a person like the Baron to a duel! Do you suppose that you will be
ALLOWED to do such things? Just try doing them, and see if any one will
be afraid of you! The reason why I have asked you to desist is that I
can see that your conduct is causing the General annoyance. Do you
believe that the Baron could not tell his lacquey simply to put you out
of doors?"

"Nevertheless I should not GO out of doors," I retorted with absolute
calm. "You are labouring under a delusion, Monsieur de Griers. The
thing will be done in far better trim than you imagine. I was just
about to start for Mr. Astley's, to ask him to be my intermediary--in
other words, my second. He has a strong liking for me, and I do not
think that he will refuse. He will go and see the Baron on MY behalf,
and the Baron will certainly not decline to receive him. Although I am
only a tutor--a kind of subaltern, Mr. Astley is known to all men as
the nephew of a real English lord, the Lord Piebroch, as well as a lord
in his own right. Yes, you may be pretty sure that the Baron will be
civil to Mr. Astley, and listen to him. Or, should he decline to do so,
Mr. Astley will take the refusal as a personal affront to himself (for
you know how persistent the English are?) and thereupon introduce to
the Baron a friend of his own (and he has many friends in a good
position). That being so, picture to yourself the issue of the
affair--an affair which will not quite end as you think it will."

This caused the Frenchman to bethink him of playing the coward. "Really
things may be as this fellow says," he evidently thought. "Really he
MIGHT be able to engineer another scene."

"Once more I beg of you to let the matter drop," he continued in a tone
that was now entirely conciliatory. "One would think that it actually
PLEASED you to have scenes! Indeed, it is a brawl rather than genuine
satisfaction that you are seeking. I have said that the affair may
prove to be diverting, and even clever, and that possibly you may
attain something by it; yet none the less I tell you" (he said this
only because he saw me rise and reach for my hat) "that I have come
hither also to hand you these few words from a certain person. Read
them, please, for I must take her back an answer."

So saying, he took from his pocket a small, compact, wafer-sealed note,
and handed it to me. In Polina's handwriting I read:

"I hear that you are thinking of going on with this affair. You have
lost your temper now, and are beginning to play the fool! Certain
circumstances, however, I may explain to you later. Pray cease from
your folly, and put a check upon yourself. For folly it all is. I have
need of you, and, moreover, you have promised to obey me. Remember the
Shlangenberg.  I ask you to be obedient. If necessary, I shall even BID
you be obedient.--Your own----POLINA.

"P.S.--If so be that you still bear a grudge against me for what
happened last night, pray forgive me."


Everything, to my eyes, seemed to change as I read these words. My lips
grew pale, and I began to tremble. Meanwhile, the cursed Frenchman was
eyeing me discreetly and askance, as though he wished to avoid
witnessing my confusion. It would have been better if he had laughed
outright.

"Very well," I said, "you can tell Mlle. not to disturb herself. But,"
I added sharply, "I would also ask you why you have been so long in
handing me this note? Instead of chattering about trifles, you ought to
have delivered me the missive at once--if you have really come
commissioned as you say."

"Well, pardon some natural haste on my part, for the situation is so
strange. I wished first to gain some personal knowledge of your
intentions; and, moreover, I did not know the contents of the note, and
thought that it could be given you at any time."

"I understand," I replied. "So you were ordered to hand me the note
only in the last resort, and if you could not otherwise appease me? Is
it not so? Speak out, Monsieur de Griers."

"Perhaps," said he, assuming a look of great forbearance, but gazing at
me in a meaning way.

I reached for my hat; whereupon he nodded, and went out. Yet on his
lips I fancied that I could see a mocking smile. How could it have been
otherwise?

"You and I are to have a reckoning later, Master Frenchman," I muttered
as I descended the stairs. "Yes, we will measure our strength
together." Yet my thoughts were all in confusion, for again something
seemed to have struck me dizzy. Presently the air revived me a little,
and, a couple of minutes later, my brain had sufficiently cleared to
enable two ideas in particular to stand out in it. Firstly, I asked
myself, which of the absurd, boyish, and extravagant threats which I
had uttered at random last night had made everybody so alarmed?
Secondly, what was the influence which this Frenchman appeared to
exercise over Polina? He had but to give the word, and at once she did
as he desired--at once she wrote me a note to beg of me to forbear! Of
course, the relations between the pair had, from the first, been a
riddle to me--they had been so ever since I had first made their
acquaintance.  But of late I had remarked in her a strong aversion for,
even a contempt for--him, while, for his part, he had scarcely even
looked at her, but had behaved towards her always in the most churlish
fashion. Yes, I had noted that. Also, Polina herself had mentioned to
me her dislike for him, and delivered herself of some remarkable
confessions on the subject. Hence, he must have got her into his power
somehow--somehow he must be holding her as in a vice.



VIII

All at once, on the Promenade, as it was called--that is to say, in the
Chestnut Avenue--I came face to face with my Englishman.

"I was just coming to see you," he said; "and you appear to be out on a
similar errand. So you have parted with your employers?"

"How do you know that?" I asked in astonishment. "Is EVERY ONE aware of
the fact?"

"By no means. Not every one would consider such a fact to be of moment.
Indeed, I have never heard any one speak of it."

"Then how come you to know it?"

"Because I have had occasion to do so. Whither are you bound? I like
you, and was therefore coming to pay you a visit."

"What a splendid fellow you are, Mr. Astley!" I cried, though still
wondering how he had come by his knowledge. "And since I have not yet
had my coffee, and you have, in all probability, scarcely tasted yours,
let us adjourn to the Casino Cafe, where we can sit and smoke and have
a talk."

The cafe in question was only a hundred paces away; so, when coffee had
been brought, we seated ourselves, and I lit a cigarette. Astley was no
smoker, but, taking a seat by my side, he prepared himself to listen.

"I do not intend to go away," was my first remark. "I intend, on the
contrary, to remain here."

"That I never doubted," he answered good-humouredly.

It is a curious fact that, on my way to see him, I had never even
thought of telling him of my love for Polina. In fact, I had purposely
meant to avoid any mention of the subject. Nor, during our stay in the
place, had I ever made aught but the scantiest reference to it. You
see, not only was Astley a man of great reserve, but also from the
first I had perceived that Polina had made a great impression upon him,
although he never spoke of her. But now, strangely enough, he had no
sooner seated himself and bent his steely gaze upon me, than, for some
reason or another, I felt moved to tell him everything--to speak to him
of my love in all its phases. For an hour and a half did I discourse on
the subject, and found it a pleasure to do so, even though this was the
first occasion on which I had referred to the matter. Indeed, when, at
certain moments, I perceived that my more ardent passages confused him,
I purposely increased my ardour of narration. Yet one thing I regret:
and that is that I made references to the Frenchman which were a little
over-personal.

Mr. Astley sat without moving as he listened to me. Not a word nor a
sound of any kind did he utter as he stared into my eyes. Suddenly,
however, on my mentioning the Frenchman, he interrupted me, and
inquired sternly whether I did right to speak of an extraneous matter
(he had always been a strange man in his mode of propounding questions).

"No, I fear not," I replied.

"And concerning this Marquis and Mlle. Polina you know nothing beyond
surmise?"

Again I was surprised that such a categorical question should come from
such a reserved individual.

"No, I know nothing FOR CERTAIN about them" was my reply. "No--nothing."

"Then you have done very wrong to speak of them to me, or even to
imagine things about them."

"Quite so, quite so," I interrupted in some astonishment. "I admit
that. Yet that is not the question." Whereupon I related to him in
detail the incident of two days ago. I spoke of Polina's outburst, of
my encounter with the Baron, of my dismissal, of the General's
extraordinary pusillanimity, and of the call which De Griers had that
morning paid me. In conclusion, I showed Astley the note which I had
lately received.

"What do you make of it?" I asked. "When I met you I was just coming to
ask you your opinion. For myself, I could have killed this Frenchman,
and am not sure that I shall not do so even yet."

"I feel the same about it," said Mr. Astley. "As for Mlle.
Polina--well, you yourself know that, if necessity drives, one enters
into relation with people whom one simply detests. Even between this
couple there may be something which, though unknown to you, depends
upon extraneous circumstances. For, my own part, I think that you may
reassure yourself--or at all events partially. And as for Mlle.
Polina's proceedings of two days ago, they were, of course, strange;
not because she can have meant to get rid of you, or to earn for you a
thrashing from the Baron's cudgel (which for some curious reason, he
did not use, although he had it ready in his hands), but because such
proceedings on the part of such--well, of such a refined lady as Mlle.
Polina are, to say the least of it, unbecoming. But she cannot have
guessed that you would carry out her absurd wish to the letter?"

"Do you know what?" suddenly I cried as I fixed Mr. Astley with my
gaze. "I believe that you have already heard the story from some
one--very possibly from Mlle. Polina herself?"

In return he gave me an astonished stare.

"Your eyes look very fiery," he said with a return of his former calm,
"and in them I can read suspicion. Now, you have no right whatever to
be suspicious. It is not a right which I can for a moment recognise,
and I absolutely refuse to answer your questions."

"Enough! You need say no more," I cried with a strange emotion at my
heart, yet not altogether understanding what had aroused that emotion
in my breast. Indeed, when, where, and how could Polina have chosen
Astley to be one of her confidants? Of late I had come rather to
overlook him in this connection, even though Polina had always been a
riddle to me--so much so that now, when I had just permitted myself to
tell my friend of my infatuation in all its aspects, I had found myself
struck, during the very telling, with the fact that in my relations
with her I could specify nothing that was explicit, nothing that was
positive. On the contrary, my relations had been purely fantastic,
strange, and unreal; they had been unlike anything else that I could
think of.

"Very well, very well," I replied with a warmth equal to Astley's own.
"Then I stand confounded, and have no further opinions to offer. But
you are a good fellow, and I am glad to know what you think about it
all, even though I do not need your advice."

Then, after a pause, I resumed:

"For instance, what reason should you assign for the General taking
fright in this way? Why should my stupid clowning have led the world to
elevate it into a serious incident? Even De Griers has found it
necessary to put in his oar (and he only interferes on the most
important occasions), and to visit me, and to address to me the most
earnest supplications. Yes, HE, De Griers, has actually been playing
the suppliant to ME! And, mark you, although he came to me as early as
nine o'clock, he had ready-prepared in his hand Mlle. Polina's note.
When, I would ask, was that note written? Mlle. Polina must have been
aroused from sleep for the express purpose of writing it. At all events
the circumstance shows that she is an absolute slave to the Frenchman,
since she actually begs my pardon in the note--actually begs my pardon!
Yet what is her personal concern in the matter? Why is she interested
in it at all? Why, too, is the whole party so afraid of this precious
Baron? And what sort of a business do you call it for the General to be
going to marry Mlle. Blanche de Cominges? He told me last night that,
because of the circumstance, he must 'move with especial care at
present.' What is your opinion of it all? Your look convinces me that
you know more about it than I do."

Mr. Astley smiled and nodded.

"Yes, I think I DO know more about it than you do," he assented. "The
affair centres around this Mlle. Blanche. Of that I feel certain."

"And what of Mlle. Blanche?" I cried impatiently (for in me there had
dawned a sudden hope that this would enable me to discover something
about Polina).

"Well, my belief is that at the present moment Mlle. Blanche has, in
very truth, a special reason for wishing to avoid any trouble with the
Baron and the Baroness.  It might lead not only to some unpleasantness,
but even to a scandal."

"Oh, oh!"

"Also I may tell you that Mlle. Blanche has been in Roulettenberg
before, for she was staying here three seasons ago. I myself was in the
place at the time, and in those days Mlle. Blanche was not known as
Mlle. de Cominges, nor was her mother, the Widow de Cominges, even in
existence. In any case no one ever mentioned the latter. De Griers,
too, had not materialised, and I am convinced that not only do the
parties stand in no relation to one another, but also they have not
long enjoyed one another's acquaintance. Likewise, the Marquisate de
Griers is of recent creation. Of that I have reason to be sure, owing
to a certain circumstance. Even the name De Griers itself may be taken
to be a new invention, seeing that I have a friend who once met the
said 'Marquis' under a different name altogether."

"Yet he possesses a good circle of friends?"

"Possibly. Mlle. Blanche also may possess that. Yet it is not three
years since she received from the local police, at the instance of the
Baroness, an invitation to leave the town. And she left it."

"But why?"

"Well, I must tell you that she first appeared here in company with an
Italian--a prince of some sort, a man who bore an historic name
(Barberini or something of the kind). The fellow was simply a mass of
rings and diamonds--real diamonds, too--and the couple used to drive
out in a marvellous carriage. At first Mlle. Blanche played 'trente et
quarante' with fair success, but, later, her luck took a marked change
for the worse. I distinctly remember that in a single evening she lost
an enormous sum. But worse was to ensue, for one fine morning her
prince disappeared--horses, carriage, and all. Also, the hotel bill
which he left unpaid was enormous. Upon this Mlle. Zelma (the name
which she assumed after figuring as Madame Barberini) was in despair.
She shrieked and howled all over the hotel, and even tore her clothes
in her frenzy. In the hotel there was staying also a Polish count (you
must know that ALL travelling Poles are counts!), and the spectacle of
Mlle. Zelma tearing her clothes and, catlike, scratching her face with
her beautiful, scented nails produced upon him a strong impression. So
the pair had a talk together, and, by luncheon time, she was consoled.
Indeed, that evening the couple entered the Casino arm-in-arm--Mlle.
Zelma laughing loudly, according to her custom, and showing even more
expansiveness in her manners than she had before shown. For instance,
she thrust her way into the file of women roulette-players in the exact
fashion of those ladies who, to clear a space for themselves at the
tables, push their fellow-players roughly aside. Doubtless you have
noticed them?"

"Yes, certainly."

"Well, they are not worth noticing. To the annoyance of the decent
public they are allowed to remain here--at all events such of them as
daily change 4000 franc notes at the tables (though, as soon as ever
these women cease to do so, they receive an invitation to depart).
However, Mlle. Zelma continued to change notes of this kind, but her
play grew more and more unsuccessful, despite the fact that such
ladies' luck is frequently good, for they have a surprising amount of
cash at their disposal. Suddenly, the Count too disappeared, even as
the Prince had done, and that same evening Mlle. Zelma was forced to
appear in the Casino alone. On this occasion no one offered her a
greeting. Two days later she had come to the end of her resources;
whereupon, after staking and losing her last louis d'or she chanced to
look around her, and saw standing by her side the Baron Burmergelm, who
had been eyeing her with fixed disapproval. To his distaste, however,
Mlle. paid no attention, but, turning to him with her well-known smile,
requested him to stake, on her behalf, ten louis on the red. Later that
evening a complaint from the Baroness led the authorities to request
Mlle. not to re-enter the Casino. If you feel in any way surprised that
I should know these petty and unedifying details, the reason is that I
had them from a relative of mine who, later that evening, drove Mlle.
Zelma in his carriage from Roulettenberg to Spa. Now, mark you, Mlle.
wants to become Madame General, in order that, in future, she may be
spared the receipt of such invitations from Casino authorities as she
received three years ago. At present she is not playing; but that is
only because, according to the signs, she is lending money to other
players. Yes, that is a much more paying game. I even suspect that the
unfortunate General is himself in her debt, as well as, perhaps, also
De Griers. Or, it may be that the latter has entered into a partnership
with her. Consequently you yourself will see that, until the marriage
shall have been consummated, Mlle. would scarcely like to have the
attention of the Baron and the Baroness drawn to herself. In short, to
any one in her position, a scandal would be most detrimental. You form
a member of the menage of these people; wherefore, any act of yours
might cause such a scandal--and the more so since daily she appears in
public arm in arm with the General or with Mlle. Polina. NOW do you
understand?"

"No, I do not!" I shouted as I banged my fist down upon the
table--banged it with such violence that a frightened waiter came
running towards us. "Tell me, Mr. Astley, why, if you knew this history
all along, and, consequently, always knew who this Mlle. Blanche is,
you never warned either myself or the General, nor, most of all, Mlle.
Polina" (who is accustomed to appear in the Casino--in public
everywhere with Mlle. Blanche). "How could you do it?"

"It would have done no good to warn you," he replied quietly, "for the
reason that you could have effected nothing. Against what was I to warn
you? As likely as not, the General knows more about Mlle. Blanche even
than I do; yet the unhappy man still walks about with her and Mlle.
Polina. Only yesterday I saw this Frenchwoman riding, splendidly
mounted, with De Griers, while the General was careering in their wake
on a roan horse. He had said, that morning, that his legs were hurting
him, yet his riding-seat was easy enough. As he passed I looked at him,
and the thought occurred to me that he was a man lost for ever.
However, it is no affair of mine, for I have only recently had the
happiness to make Mlle. Polina's acquaintance. Also"--he added this as
an afterthought--"I have already told you that I do not recognise your
right to ask me certain questions, however sincere be my liking for
you."

"Enough," I said, rising. "To me it is as clear as day that Mlle.
Polina knows all about this Mlle. Blanche, but cannot bring herself to
part with her Frenchman; wherefore, she consents also to be seen in
public with Mlle. Blanche. You may be sure that nothing else would ever
have induced her either to walk about with this Frenchwoman or to send
me a note not to touch the Baron. Yes, it is THERE that the influence
lies before which everything in the world must bow! Yet she herself it
was who launched me at the Baron! The devil take it, but I was left no
choice in the matter."

"You forget, in the first place, that this Mlle. de Cominges is the
General's inamorata, and, in the second place, that Mlle. Polina, the
General's step-daughter, has a younger brother and sister who, though
they are the General's own children, are completely neglected by this
madman, and robbed as well."

"Yes, yes; that is so. For me to go and desert the children now would
mean their total abandonment; whereas, if I remain, I should be able to
defend their interests, and, perhaps, to save a moiety of their
property. Yes, yes; that is quite true. And yet, and yet--Oh, I can
well understand why they are all so interested in the General's mother!"

"In whom?" asked Mr. Astley.

"In the old woman of Moscow who declines to die, yet concerning whom
they are for ever expecting telegrams to notify the fact of her death."

"Ah, then of course their interests centre around her. It is a question
of succession. Let that but be settled, and the General will marry,
Mlle. Polina will be set free, and De Griers--"

"Yes, and De Griers?"

"Will be repaid his money, which is what he is now waiting for."

"What? You think that he is waiting for that?"

"I know of nothing else," asserted Mr. Astley doggedly.

"But, I do, I do!" I shouted in my fury. "He is waiting also for the
old woman's will, for the reason that it awards Mlle. Polina a dowry.
As soon as ever the money is received, she will throw herself upon the
Frenchman's neck. All women are like that. Even the proudest of them
become abject slaves where marriage is concerned. What Polina is good
for is to fall head over ears in love. That is MY opinion. Look at
her--especially when she is sitting alone, and plunged in thought. All
this was pre-ordained and foretold, and is accursed. Polina could
perpetrate any mad act. She--she--But who called me by name?" I broke
off. "Who is shouting for me? I heard some one calling in Russian,
'Alexis Ivanovitch!' It was a woman's voice. Listen!"

At the moment, we were approaching my hotel. We had left the cafe long
ago, without even noticing that we had done so.

"Yes, I DID hear a woman's voice calling, but whose I do not know. The
someone was calling you in Russian. Ah! NOW I can see whence the cries
come. They come from that lady there--the one who is sitting on the
settee, the one who has just been escorted to the verandah by a crowd
of lacqueys. Behind her see that pile of luggage! She must have arrived
by train."

"But why should she be calling ME? Hear her calling again! See! She is
beckoning to us!"

"Yes, so she is," assented Mr. Astley.

"Alexis Ivanovitch, Alexis Ivanovitch! Good heavens, what a stupid
fellow!" came in a despairing wail from the verandah.

We had almost reached the portico, and I was just setting foot upon the
space before it, when my hands fell to my sides in limp astonishment,
and my feet glued themselves to the pavement!



IX

For on the topmost tier of the hotel verandah, after being carried up
the steps in an armchair amid a bevy of footmen, maid-servants, and
other menials of the hotel, headed by the landlord (that functionary
had actually run out to meet a visitor who arrived with so much stir
and din, attended by her own retinue, and accompanied by so great a
pile of trunks and portmanteaux)--on the topmost tier of the verandah,
I say, there was sitting--THE GRANDMOTHER! Yes, it was she--rich, and
imposing, and seventy-five years of age--Antonida Vassilievna
Tarassevitcha, landowner and grande dame of Moscow--the "La Baboulenka"
who had caused so many telegrams to be sent off and received--who had
been dying, yet not dying--who had, in her own person, descended upon
us even as snow might fall from the clouds! Though unable to walk, she
had arrived borne aloft in an armchair (her mode of conveyance for the
last five years), as brisk, aggressive, self-satisfied, bolt-upright,
loudly imperious, and generally abusive as ever. In fact, she looked
exactly as she had on the only two occasions when I had seen her since
my appointment to the General's household.  Naturally enough, I stood
petrified with astonishment. She had sighted me a hundred paces off!
Even while she was being carried along in her chair she had recognised
me, and called me by name and surname (which, as usual, after hearing
once, she had remembered ever afterwards).

"And this is the woman whom they had thought to see in her grave after
making her will!" I thought to myself. "Yet she will outlive us, and
every one else in the hotel. Good Lord! what is going to become of us
now? What on earth is to happen to the General? She will turn the place
upside down!"

"My good sir," the old woman continued in a stentorian voice, "what are
you standing THERE for, with your eyes almost falling out of your head?
Cannot you come and say how-do-you-do? Are you too proud to shake
hands? Or do you not recognise me? Here, Potapitch!" she cried to an
old servant who, dressed in a frock coat and white waistcoat, had a
bald, red head (he was the chamberlain who always accompanied her on
her journeys). "Just think! Alexis Ivanovitch does not recognise me!
They have buried me for good and all! Yes, and after sending hosts of
telegrams to know if I were dead or not! Yes, yes, I have heard the
whole story. I am very much alive, though, as you may see."

"Pardon me, Antonida Vassilievna," I replied good humouredly as I
recovered my presence of mind. "I have no reason to wish you ill. I am
merely rather astonished to see you. Why should I not be so, seeing how
unexpected--"

"WHY should you be astonished? I just got into my chair, and came.
Things are quiet enough in the train, for there is no one there to
chatter. Have you been out for a walk?"

"Yes. I have just been to the Casino."

"Oh? Well, it is quite nice here," she went on as she looked about her.
"The place seems comfortable, and all the trees are out. I like it very
well. Are your people at home? Is the General, for instance, indoors?"

"Yes; and probably all of them."

"Do they observe the convenances, and keep up appearances? Such things
always give one tone. I have heard that they are keeping a carriage,
even as Russian gentlefolks ought to do. When abroad, our Russian
people always cut a dash. Is Prascovia here too?"

"Yes. Polina Alexandrovna is here."

"And the Frenchwoman? However, I will go and look for them myself. Tell
me the nearest way to their rooms. Do you like being here?"

"Yes, I thank you, Antonida Vassilievna."

"And you, Potapitch, you go and tell that fool of a landlord to reserve
me a suitable suite of rooms. They must be handsomely decorated, and
not too high up. Have my luggage taken up to them. But what are you
tumbling over yourselves for? Why are you all tearing about? What
scullions these fellows are!--Who is that with you?" she added to
myself.

"A Mr. Astley," I replied.

"And who is Mr. Astley?"

"A fellow-traveller, and my very good friend, as well as an
acquaintance of the General's."

"Oh, an Englishman? Then that is why he stared at me without even
opening his lips. However, I like Englishmen. Now, take me upstairs,
direct to their rooms. Where are they lodging?"

Madame was lifted up in her chair by the lacqueys, and I preceded her
up the grand staircase. Our progress was exceedingly effective, for
everyone whom we met stopped to stare at the cortege. It happened that
the hotel had the reputation of being the best, the most expensive, and
the most aristocratic in all the spa, and at every turn on the
staircase or in the corridors we encountered fine ladies and
important-looking Englishmen--more than one of whom hastened downstairs
to inquire of the awestruck landlord who the newcomer was. To all such
questions he returned the same answer--namely, that the old lady was an
influential foreigner, a Russian, a Countess, and a grande dame, and
that she had taken the suite which, during the previous week, had been
tenanted by the Grande Duchesse de N.

Meanwhile the cause of the sensation--the Grandmother--was being borne
aloft in her armchair. Every person whom she met she scanned with an
inquisitive eye, after first of all interrogating me about him or her
at the top of her voice. She was stout of figure, and, though she could
not leave her chair, one felt, the moment that one first looked at her,
that she was also tall of stature. Her back was as straight as a board,
and never did she lean back in her seat. Also, her large grey head,
with its keen, rugged features, remained always erect as she glanced
about her in an imperious, challenging sort of way, with looks and
gestures that clearly were unstudied. Though she had reached her
seventy-sixth year, her face was still fresh, and her teeth had not
decayed. Lastly, she was dressed in a black silk gown and white mobcap.

"She interests me tremendously," whispered Mr. Astley as, still
smoking, he walked by my side. Meanwhile I was reflecting that probably
the old lady knew all about the telegrams, and even about De Griers,
though little or nothing about Mlle. Blanche. I said as much to Mr.
Astley.

But what a frail creature is man! No sooner was my first surprise
abated than I found myself rejoicing in the shock which we were about
to administer to the General. So much did the thought inspire me that I
marched ahead in the gayest of fashions.

Our party was lodging on the third floor. Without knocking at the door,
or in any way announcing our presence, I threw open the portals, and
the Grandmother was borne through them in triumph. As though of set
purpose, the whole party chanced at that moment to be assembled in the
General's study. The time was eleven o'clock, and it seemed that an
outing of some sort (at which a portion of the party were to drive in
carriages, and others to ride on horseback, accompanied by one or two
extraneous acquaintances) was being planned. The General was present,
and also Polina, the children, the latter's nurses, De Griers, Mlle.
Blanche (attired in a riding-habit), her mother, the young Prince, and
a learned German whom I beheld for the first time. Into the midst of
this assembly the lacqueys conveyed Madame in her chair, and set her
down within three paces of the General!

Good heavens! Never shall I forget the spectacle which ensued! Just
before our entry, the General had been holding forth to the company,
with De Griers in support of him. I may also mention that, for the last
two or three days, Mlle. Blanche and De Griers had been making a great
deal of the young Prince, under the very nose of the poor General. In
short, the company, though decorous and conventional, was in a gay,
familiar mood. But no sooner did the Grandmother appear than the
General stopped dead in the middle of a word, and, with jaw dropping,
stared hard at the old lady--his eyes almost starting out of his head,
and his expression as spellbound as though he had just seen a basilisk.
In return, the Grandmother stared at him silently and without
moving--though with a look of mingled challenge, triumph, and ridicule
in her eyes. For ten seconds did the pair remain thus eyeing one
another, amid the profound silence of the company; and even De Griers
sat petrified--an extraordinary look of uneasiness dawning on his face.
As for Mlle. Blanche, she too stared wildly at the Grandmother, with
eyebrows raised and her lips parted--while the Prince and the German
savant contemplated the tableau in profound amazement. Only Polina
looked anything but perplexed or surprised. Presently, however, she too
turned as white as a sheet, and then reddened to her temples. Truly the
Grandmother's arrival seemed to be a catastrophe for everybody! For my
own part, I stood looking from the Grandmother to the company, and back
again, while Mr. Astley, as usual, remained in the background, and
gazed calmly and decorously at the scene.

"Well, here I am--and instead of a telegram, too!" the Grandmother at
last ejaculated, to dissipate the silence. "What? You were not
expecting me?"

"Antonida Vassilievna! O my dearest mother! But how on earth did you,
did you--?" The mutterings of the unhappy General died away.

I verily believe that if the Grandmother had held her tongue a few
seconds longer she would have had a stroke.

"How on earth did I WHAT?" she exclaimed. "Why, I just got into the
train and came here. What else is the railway meant for? But you
thought that I had turned up my toes and left my property to the lot of
you. Oh, I know ALL about the telegrams which you have been
dispatching. They must have cost you a pretty sum, I should think, for
telegrams are not sent from abroad for nothing. Well, I picked up my
heels, and came here. Who is this Frenchman? Monsieur de Griers, I
suppose?"

"Oui, madame," assented De Griers. "Et, croyez, je suis si enchante!
Votre sante--c'est un miracle vous voir ici. Une surprise charmante!"

"Just so. 'Charmante!' I happen to know you as a mountebank, and
therefore trust you no more than THIS." She indicated her little
finger. "And who is THAT?" she went on, turning towards Mlle. Blanche.
Evidently the Frenchwoman looked so becoming in her riding-habit, with
her whip in her hand, that she had made an impression upon the old
lady. "Who is that woman there?"

"Mlle. de Cominges," I said. "And this is her mother, Madame de
Cominges. They also are staying in the hotel."

"Is the daughter married?" asked the old lady, without the least
semblance of ceremony.

"No," I replied as respectfully as possible, but under my breath.

"Is she good company?"

I failed to understand the question.

"I mean, is she or is she not a bore? Can she speak Russian? When this
De Griers was in Moscow he soon learnt to make himself understood."

I explained to the old lady that Mlle. Blanche had never visited Russia.

"Bonjour, then," said Madame, with sudden brusquerie.

"Bonjour, madame," replied Mlle. Blanche with an elegant, ceremonious
bow as, under cover of an unwonted modesty, she endeavoured to express,
both in face and figure, her extreme surprise at such strange behaviour
on the part of the Grandmother.

"How the woman sticks out her eyes at me! How she mows and minces!" was
the Grandmother's comment. Then she turned suddenly to the General, and
continued: "I have taken up my abode here, so am going to be your
next-door neighbour. Are you glad to hear that, or are you not?"

"My dear mother, believe me when I say that I am sincerely delighted,"
returned the General, who had now, to a certain extent, recovered his
senses; and inasmuch as, when occasion arose, he could speak with
fluency, gravity, and a certain effect, he set himself to be expansive
in his remarks, and went on: "We have been so dismayed and upset by the
news of your indisposition! We had received such hopeless telegrams
about you! Then suddenly--"

"Fibs, fibs!" interrupted the Grandmother.

"How on earth, too, did you come to decide upon the journey?" continued
the General, with raised voice as he hurried to overlook the old lady's
last remark. "Surely, at your age, and in your present state of health,
the thing is so unexpected that our surprise is at least intelligible.
However, I am glad to see you (as indeed, are we all"--he said this
with a dignified, yet conciliatory, smile), "and will use my best
endeavours to render your stay here as pleasant as possible."

"Enough! All this is empty chatter. You are talking the usual nonsense.
I shall know quite well how to spend my time. How did I come to
undertake the journey, you ask? Well, is there anything so very
surprising about it? It was done quite simply. What is every one going
into ecstasies about?--How do you do, Prascovia? What are YOU doing
here?"

"And how are YOU, Grandmother?" replied Polina, as she approached the
old lady. "Were you long on the journey?"

"The most sensible question that I have yet been asked! Well, you shall
hear for yourself how it all happened. I lay and lay, and was doctored
and doctored, until at last I drove the physicians from me, and called
in an apothecary from Nicolai who had cured an old woman of a malady
similar to my own--cured her merely with a little hayseed. Well, he did
me a great deal of good, for on the third day I broke into a sweat, and
was able to leave my bed. Then my German doctors held another
consultation, put on their spectacles, and told me that if I would go
abroad, and take a course of the waters, the indisposition would
finally pass away. 'Why should it not?' I thought to myself. So I had
got things ready, and on the following day, a Friday, set out for here.
I occupied a special compartment in the train, and where ever I had to
change I found at the station bearers who were ready to carry me for a
few coppers. You have nice quarters here," she went on as she glanced
around the room. "But where on earth did you get the money for them, my
good sir? I thought that everything of yours had been mortgaged? This
Frenchman alone must be your creditor for a good deal. Oh, I know all
about it, all about it."

"I-I am surprised at you, my dearest mother," said the General in some
confusion. "I-I am greatly surprised. But I do not need any extraneous
control of my finances. Moreover, my expenses do not exceed my income,
and we--"

"They do not exceed it? Fie! Why, you are robbing your children of
their last kopeck--you, their guardian!"

"After this," said the General, completely taken aback, "--after what
you have just said, I do not know whether--"

"You do not know what? By heavens, are you never going to drop that
roulette of yours? Are you going to whistle all your property away?"

This made such an impression upon the General that he almost choked
with fury.

"Roulette, indeed? I play roulette? Really, in view of my
position--Recollect what you are saying, my dearest mother. You must
still be unwell."

"Rubbish, rubbish!" she retorted. "The truth is that you CANNOT be got
away from that roulette. You are simply telling lies. This very day I
mean to go and see for myself what roulette is like. Prascovia, tell me
what there is to be seen here; and do you, Alexis Ivanovitch, show me
everything; and do you, Potapitch, make me a list of excursions. What
IS there to be seen?" again she inquired of Polina.

"There is a ruined castle, and the Shlangenberg."

"The Shlangenberg? What is it? A forest?"

"No, a mountain on the summit of which there is a place fenced off.
From it you can get a most beautiful view."

"Could a chair be carried up that mountain of yours?"

"Doubtless we could find bearers for the purpose," I interposed.

At this moment Theodosia, the nursemaid, approached the old lady with
the General's children.

"No, I DON'T want to see them," said the Grandmother. "I hate kissing
children, for their noses are always wet. How are you getting on,
Theodosia?"

"I am very well, thank you, Madame," replied the nursemaid. "And how is
your ladyship? We have been feeling so anxious about you!"

"Yes, I know, you simple soul--But who are those other guests?" the old
lady continued, turning again to Polina. "For instance, who is that old
rascal in the spectacles?"

"Prince Nilski, Grandmamma," whispered Polina.

"Oh, a Russian? Why, I had no idea that he could understand me! Surely
he did not hear what I said? As for Mr. Astley, I have seen him
already, and I see that he is here again. How do you do?" she added to
the gentleman in question.

Mr. Astley bowed in silence.

"Have you NOTHING to say to me?" the old lady went on. "Say something,
for goodness' sake! Translate to him, Polina."

Polina did so.

"I have only to say," replied Mr. Astley gravely, but also with
alacrity, "that I am indeed glad to see you in such good health." This
was interpreted to the Grandmother, and she seemed much gratified.

"How well English people know how to answer one!" she remarked. "That
is why I like them so much better than French. Come here," she added to
Mr. Astley. "I will try not to bore you too much. Polina, translate to
him that I am staying in rooms on a lower floor. Yes, on a lower
floor," she repeated to Astley, pointing downwards with her finger.

Astley looked pleased at receiving the invitation.

Next, the old lady scanned Polina, from head to foot with minute
attention.

"I could almost have liked you, Prascovia," suddenly she remarked, "for
you are a nice girl--the best of the lot. You have some character about
you. I too have character. Turn round. Surely that is not false hair
that you are wearing?"

"No, Grandmamma. It is my own."

"Well, well. I do not like the stupid fashions of today. You are very
good looking. I should have fallen in love with you if I had been a
man. Why do you not get married? It is time now that I was going. I
want to walk, yet I always have to ride. Are you still in a bad
temper?" she added to the General.

"No, indeed," rejoined the now mollified General.

"I quite understand that at your time of life--"

"Cette vieille est tombee en enfance," De Griers whispered to me.

"But I want to look round a little," the old lady added to the General.
Will you lend me Alexis Ivanovitch for the purpose?

"As much as you like. But I myself--yes, and Polina and Monsieur de
Griers too--we all of us hope to have the pleasure of escorting you."

"Mais, madame, cela sera un plaisir," De Griers commented with a
bewitching smile.

"'Plaisir' indeed! Why, I look upon you as a perfect fool, monsieur."
Then she remarked to the General: "I am not going to let you have any
of my money. I must be off to my rooms now, to see what they are like.
Afterwards we will look round a little. Lift me up."

Again the Grandmother was borne aloft and carried down the staircase
amid a perfect bevy of followers--the General walking as though he had
been hit over the head with a cudgel, and De Griers seeming to be
plunged in thought. Endeavouring to be left behind, Mlle. Blanche next
thought better of it, and followed the rest, with the Prince in her
wake. Only the German savant and Madame de Cominges did not leave the
General's apartments.



X

At spas--and, probably, all over Europe--hotel landlords and managers
are guided in their allotment of rooms to visitors, not so much by the
wishes and requirements of those visitors, as by their personal
estimate of the same. It may also be said that these landlords and
managers seldom make a mistake. To the Grandmother, however, our
landlord, for some reason or another, allotted such a sumptuous suite
that he fairly overreached himself; for he assigned her a suite
consisting of four magnificently appointed rooms, with bathroom,
servants' quarters, a separate room for her maid, and so on. In fact,
during the previous week the suite had been occupied by no less a
personage than a Grand Duchess: which circumstance was duly explained
to the new occupant, as an excuse for raising the price of these
apartments. The Grandmother had herself carried--or, rather,
wheeled--through each room in turn, in order that she might subject the
whole to a close and attentive scrutiny; while the landlord--an
elderly, bald-headed man--walked respectfully by her side.

What every one took the Grandmother to be I do not know, but it
appeared, at least, that she was accounted a person not only of great
importance, but also, and still more, of great wealth; and without
delay they entered her in the hotel register as "Madame la Generale,
Princesse de Tarassevitcheva," although she had never been a princess
in her life. Her retinue, her reserved compartment in the train, her
pile of unnecessary trunks, portmanteaux, and strong-boxes, all helped
to increase her prestige; while her wheeled chair, her sharp tone and
voice, her eccentric questions (put with an air of the most overbearing
and unbridled imperiousness), her whole figure--upright, rugged, and
commanding as it was--completed the general awe in which she was held.
As she inspected her new abode she ordered her chair to be stopped at
intervals in order that, with finger extended towards some article of
furniture, she might ply the respectfully smiling, yet secretly
apprehensive, landlord with unexpected questions. She addressed them to
him in French, although her pronunciation of the language was so bad
that sometimes I had to translate them. For the most part, the
landlord's answers were unsatisfactory, and failed to please her; nor
were the questions themselves of a practical nature, but related,
generally, to God knows what.

For instance, on one occasion she halted before a picture which, a poor
copy of a well-known original, had a mythological subject.

"Of whom is this a portrait?" she inquired.

The landlord explained that it was probably that of a countess.

"But how know you that?" the old lady retorted.

"You live here, yet you cannot say for certain! And why is the picture
there at all? And why do its eyes look so crooked?"

To all these questions the landlord could return no satisfactory reply,
despite his floundering endeavours.

"The blockhead!" exclaimed the Grandmother in Russian.

Then she proceeded on her way--only to repeat the same story in front
of a Saxon statuette which she had sighted from afar, and had
commanded, for some reason or another, to be brought to her. Finally,
she inquired of the landlord what was the value of the carpet in her
bedroom, as well as where the said carpet had been manufactured; but,
the landlord could do no more than promise to make inquiries.

"What donkeys these people are!" she commented. Next, she turned her
attention to the bed.

"What a huge counterpane!" she exclaimed. "Turn it back, please." The
lacqueys did so.

"Further yet, further yet," the old lady cried. "Turn it RIGHT back.
Also, take off those pillows and bolsters, and lift up the feather bed."

The bed was opened for her inspection.

"Mercifully it contains no bugs," she remarked.

"Pull off the whole thing, and then put on my own pillows and sheets.
The place is too luxurious for an old woman like myself. It is too
large for any one person. Alexis Ivanovitch, come and see me whenever
you are not teaching your pupils."

"After tomorrow I shall no longer be in the General's service," I
replied, "but merely living in the hotel on my own account."

"Why so?"

"Because, the other day, there arrived from Berlin a German and his
wife--persons of some importance; and, it chanced that, when taking a
walk, I spoke to them in German without having properly compassed the
Berlin accent."

"Indeed?"

"Yes: and this action on my part the Baron held to be an insult, and
complained about it to the General, who yesterday dismissed me from his
employ."

"But I suppose you must have threatened that precious Baron, or
something of the kind? However, even if you did so, it was a matter of
no moment."

"No, I did not. The Baron was the aggressor by raising his stick at me."

Upon that the Grandmother turned sharply to the General.

"What? You permitted yourself to treat your tutor thus, you nincompoop,
and to dismiss him from his post? You are a blockhead--an utter
blockhead! I can see that clearly."

"Do not alarm yourself, my dear mother," the General replied with a
lofty air--an air in which there was also a tinge of familiarity. "I am
quite capable of managing my own affairs. Moreover, Alexis Ivanovitch
has not given you a true account of the matter."

"What did you do next?" The old lady inquired of me.

"I wanted to challenge the Baron to a duel," I replied as modestly as
possible; "but the General protested against my doing so."

"And WHY did you so protest?" she inquired of the General. Then she
turned to the landlord, and questioned him as to whether HE would not
have fought a duel, if challenged. "For," she added, "I can see no
difference between you and the Baron; nor can I bear that German visage
of yours." Upon this the landlord bowed and departed, though he could
not have understood the Grandmother's compliment.

"Pardon me, Madame," the General continued with a sneer, "but are duels
really feasible?"

"Why not? All men are crowing cocks, and that is why they quarrel. YOU,
though, I perceive, are a blockhead--a man who does not even know how
to carry his breeding. Lift me up. Potapitch, see to it that you always
have TWO bearers ready. Go and arrange for their hire. But we shall not
require more than two, for I shall need only to be carried upstairs. On
the level or in the street I can be WHEELED along. Go and tell them
that, and pay them in advance, so that they may show me some respect.
You too, Potapitch, are always to come with me, and YOU, Alexis
Ivanovitch, are to point out to me this Baron as we go along, in order
that I may get a squint at the precious 'Von.' And where is that
roulette played?"

I explained to her that the game was carried on in the salons of the
Casino; whereupon there ensued a string of questions as to whether
there were many such salons, whether many people played in them,
whether those people played a whole day at a time, and whether the game
was managed according to fixed rules. At length, I thought it best to
say that the most advisable course would be for her to go and see it
for herself, since a mere description of it would be a difficult matter.

"Then take me straight there," she said, "and do you walk on in front
of me, Alexis Ivanovitch."

"What, mother? Before you have so much as rested from your journey?"
the General inquired with some solicitude. Also, for some reason which
I could not divine, he seemed to be growing nervous; and, indeed, the
whole party was evincing signs of confusion, and exchanging glances
with one another. Probably they were thinking that it would be a
ticklish--even an embarrassing--business to accompany the Grandmother
to the Casino, where, very likely, she would perpetrate further
eccentricities, and in public too! Yet on their own initiative they had
offered to escort her!

"Why should I rest?" she retorted. "I am not tired, for I have been
sitting still these past five days. Let us see what your medicinal
springs and waters are like, and where they are situated. What, too,
about that, that--what did you call it, Prascovia?--oh, about that
mountain top?"

"Yes, we are going to see it, Grandmamma."

"Very well. Is there anything else for me to see here?"

"Yes! Quite a number of things," Polina forced herself to say.

"Martha, YOU must come with me as well," went on the old lady to her
maid.

"No, no, mother!" ejaculated the General. "Really she cannot come. They
would not admit even Potapitch to the Casino."

"Rubbish! Because she is my servant, is that a reason for turning her
out? Why, she is only a human being like the rest of us; and as she has
been travelling for a week she might like to look about her. With whom
else could she go out but myself? She would never dare to show her nose
in the street alone."

"But, mother--"

"Are you ashamed to be seen with me? Stop at home, then, and you will
be asked no questions. A pretty General YOU are, to be sure! I am a
general's widow myself. But, after all, why should I drag the whole
party with me? I will go and see the sights with only Alexis Ivanovitch
as my escort."

De Griers strongly insisted that EVERY ONE ought to accompany her.
Indeed, he launched out into a perfect shower of charming phrases
concerning the pleasure of acting as her cicerone, and so forth. Every
one was touched with his words.

"Mais elle est tombee en enfance," he added aside to the General.
"Seule, elle fera des betises." More than this I could not overhear,
but he seemed to have got some plan in his mind, or even to be feeling
a slight return of his hopes.

The distance to the Casino was about half a verst, and our route led us
through the Chestnut Avenue until we reached the square directly
fronting the building. The General, I could see, was a trifle reassured
by the fact that, though our progress was distinctly eccentric in its
nature, it was, at least, correct and orderly. As a matter of fact, the
spectacle of a person who is unable to walk is not anything to excite
surprise at a spa. Yet it was clear that the General had a great fear
of the Casino itself: for why should a person who had lost the use of
her limbs--more especially an old woman--be going to rooms which were
set apart only for roulette? On either side of the wheeled chair walked
Polina and Mlle. Blanche--the latter smiling, modestly jesting, and, in
short, making herself so agreeable to the Grandmother that in the end
the old lady relented towards her. On the other side of the chair
Polina had to answer an endless flow of petty questions--such as "Who
was it passed just now?" "Who is that coming along?" "Is the town a
large one?" "Are the public gardens extensive?" "What sort of trees are
those?" "What is the name of those hills?" "Do I see eagles flying
yonder?" "What is that absurd-looking building?" and so forth.
Meanwhile Astley whispered to me, as he walked by my side, that he
looked for much to happen that morning. Behind the old lady's chair
marched Potapitch and Martha--Potapitch in his frockcoat and white
waistcoat, with a cloak over all, and the forty-year-old and rosy, but
slightly grey-headed, Martha in a mobcap, cotton dress, and squeaking
shoes. Frequently the old lady would twist herself round to converse
with these servants. As for De Griers, he spoke as though he had made
up his mind to do something (though it is also possible that he spoke
in this manner merely in order to hearten the General, with whom he
appeared to have held a conference). But, alas, the Grandmother had
uttered the fatal words, "I am not going to give you any of my money;"
and though De Griers might regard these words lightly, the General knew
his mother better. Also, I noticed that De Griers and Mlle. Blanche
were still exchanging looks; while of the Prince and the German savant
I lost sight at the end of the Avenue, where they had turned back and
left us.

Into the Casino we marched in triumph. At once, both in the person of
the commissionaire and in the persons of the footmen, there sprang to
life the same reverence as had arisen in the lacqueys of the hotel. Yet
it was not without some curiosity that they eyed us.

Without loss of time, the Grandmother gave orders that she should be
wheeled through every room in the establishment; of which apartments
she praised a few, while to others she remained indifferent. Concerning
everything, however, she asked questions. Finally we reached the
gaming-salons, where a lacquey who was, acting as guard over the doors,
flung them open as though he were a man possessed.

The Grandmother's entry into the roulette-salon produced a profound
impression upon the public. Around the tables, and at the further end
of the room where the trente-et-quarante table was set out, there may
have been gathered from 150 to 200 gamblers, ranged in several rows.
Those who had succeeded in pushing their way to the tables were
standing with their feet firmly planted, in order to avoid having to
give up their places until they should have finished their game (since
merely to stand looking on--thus occupying a gambler's place for
nothing--was not permitted). True, chairs were provided around the
tables, but few players made use of them--more especially if there was
a large attendance of the general public; since to stand allowed of a
closer approach; and, therefore, of greater facilities for calculation
and staking. Behind the foremost row were herded a second and a third
row of people awaiting their turn; but sometimes their impatience led
these people to stretch a hand through the first row, in order to
deposit their stakes. Even third-row individuals would dart forward to
stake; whence seldom did more than five or ten minutes pass without a
scene over disputed money arising at one or another end of the table.
On the other hand, the police of the Casino were an able body of men;
and though to escape the crush was an impossibility, however much one
might wish it, the eight croupiers apportioned to each table kept an
eye upon the stakes, performed the necessary reckoning, and decided
disputes as they arose.

In the last resort they always called in the Casino police, and the
disputes would immediately come to an end. Policemen were stationed
about the Casino in ordinary costume, and mingled with the spectators
so as to make it impossible to recognise them. In particular they kept
a lookout for pickpockets and swindlers, who simply swanned in the
roulette salons, and reaped a rich harvest. Indeed, in every direction
money was being filched from pockets or purses--though, of course, if
the attempt miscarried, a great uproar ensued. One had only to approach
a roulette table, begin to play, and then openly grab some one else's
winnings, for a din to be raised, and the thief to start vociferating
that the stake was HIS; and, if the coup had been carried out with
sufficient skill, and the witnesses wavered at all in their testimony,
the thief would as likely as not succeed in getting away with the
money, provided that the sum was not a large one--not large enough to
have attracted the attention of the croupiers or some fellow-player.
Moreover, if it were a stake of insignificant size, its true owner
would sometimes decline to continue the dispute, rather than become
involved in a scandal. Conversely, if the thief was detected, he was
ignominiously expelled the building.

Upon all this the Grandmother gazed with open-eyed curiosity; and, on
some thieves happening to be turned out of the place, she was
delighted. Trente-et-quarante interested her but little; she preferred
roulette, with its ever-revolving wheel. At length she expressed a wish
to view the game closer; whereupon in some mysterious manner, the
lacqueys and other officious agents (especially one or two ruined Poles
of the kind who keep offering their services to successful gamblers and
foreigners in general) at once found and cleared a space for the old
lady among the crush, at the very centre of one of the tables, and next
to the chief croupier; after which they wheeled her chair thither. Upon
this a number of visitors who were not playing, but only looking on
(particularly some Englishmen with their families), pressed closer
forward towards the table, in order to watch the old lady from among
the ranks of the gamblers. Many a lorgnette I saw turned in her
direction, and the croupiers' hopes rose high that such an eccentric
player was about to provide them with something out of the common. An
old lady of seventy-five years who, though unable to walk, desired to
play was not an everyday phenomenon. I too pressed forward towards the
table, and ranged myself by the Grandmother's side; while Martha and
Potapitch remained somewhere in the background among the crowd, and the
General, Polina, and De Griers, with Mlle. Blanche, also remained
hidden among the spectators.

At first the old lady did no more than watch the gamblers, and ply me,
in a half-whisper, with sharp-broken questions as to who was so-and-so.
Especially did her favour light upon a very young man who was plunging
heavily, and had won (so it was whispered) as much as 40,000 francs,
which were lying before him on the table in a heap of gold and
bank-notes. His eyes kept flashing, and his hands shaking; yet all the
while he staked without any sort of calculation--just what came to his
hand, as he kept winning and winning, and raking and raking in his
gains. Around him lacqueys fussed--placing chairs just behind where he
was standing--and clearing the spectators from his vicinity, so that he
should have more room, and not be crowded--the whole done, of course,
in expectation of a generous largesse. From time to time other gamblers
would hand him part of their winnings--being glad to let him stake for
them as much as his hand could grasp; while beside him stood a Pole in
a state of violent, but respectful, agitation, who, also in expectation
of a generous largesse, kept whispering to him at intervals (probably
telling him what to stake, and advising and directing his play). Yet
never once did the player throw him a glance as he staked and staked,
and raked in his winnings. Evidently, the player in question was dead
to all besides.

For a few minutes the Grandmother watched him.

"Go and tell him," suddenly she exclaimed with a nudge at my elbow,
"--go and tell him to stop, and to take his money with him, and go
home. Presently he will be losing--yes, losing everything that he has
now won." She seemed almost breathless with excitement.

"Where is Potapitch?" she continued. "Send Potapitch to speak to him.
No, YOU must tell him, you must tell him,"--here she nudged me
again--"for I have not the least notion where Potapitch is. Sortez,
sortez," she shouted to the young man, until I leant over in her
direction and whispered in her ear that no shouting was allowed, nor
even loud speaking, since to do so disturbed the calculations of the
players, and might lead to our being ejected.

"How provoking!" she retorted. "Then the young man is done for! I
suppose he WISHES to be ruined. Yet I could not bear to see him have to
return it all. What a fool the fellow is!" and the old lady turned
sharply away.

On the left, among the players at the other half of the table, a young
lady was playing, with, beside her, a dwarf. Who the dwarf may have
been--whether a relative or a person whom she took with her to act as a
foil--I do not know; but I had noticed her there on previous occasions,
since, everyday, she entered the Casino at one o'clock precisely, and
departed at two--thus playing for exactly one hour. Being well-known to
the attendants, she always had a seat provided for her; and, taking
some gold and a few thousand-franc notes out of her pocket--would begin
quietly, coldly, and after much calculation, to stake, and mark down
the figures in pencil on a paper, as though striving to work out a
system according to which, at given moments, the odds might group
themselves. Always she staked large coins, and either lost or won one,
two, or three thousand francs a day, but not more; after which she
would depart. The Grandmother took a long look at her.

"THAT woman is not losing," she said. "To whom does she belong? Do you
know her? Who is she?"

"She is, I believe, a Frenchwoman," I replied.

"Ah! A bird of passage, evidently. Besides, I can see that she has her
shoes polished. Now, explain to me the meaning of each round in the
game, and the way in which one ought to stake."

Upon this I set myself to explain the meaning of all the
combinations--of "rouge et noir," of "pair et impair," of "manque et
passe," with, lastly, the different values in the system of numbers.
The Grandmother listened attentively, took notes, put questions in
various forms, and laid the whole thing to heart. Indeed, since an
example of each system of stakes kept constantly occurring, a great
deal of information could be assimilated with ease and celerity. The
Grandmother was vastly pleased.

"But what is zero?" she inquired. "Just now I heard the flaxen-haired
croupier call out 'zero!' And why does he keep raking in all the money
that is on the table? To think that he should grab the whole pile for
himself! What does zero mean?"

"Zero is what the bank takes for itself. If the wheel stops at that
figure, everything lying on the table becomes the absolute property of
the bank. Also, whenever the wheel has begun to turn, the bank ceases
to pay out anything."

"Then I should receive nothing if I were staking?"

"No; unless by any chance you had PURPOSELY staked on zero; in which
case you would receive thirty-five times the value of your stake."

"Why thirty-five times, when zero so often turns up? And if so, why do
not more of these fools stake upon it?"

"Because the number of chances against its occurrence is thirty-six."

"Rubbish! Potapitch, Potapitch! Come here, and I will give you some
money." The old lady took out of her pocket a tightly-clasped purse,
and extracted from its depths a ten-gulden piece. "Go at once, and
stake that upon zero."

"But, Madame, zero has only this moment turned up," I remonstrated;
"wherefore, it may not do so again for ever so long. Wait a little, and
you may then have a better chance."

"Rubbish! Stake, please."

"Pardon me, but zero might not turn up again until, say, tonight, even
though you had staked thousands upon it. It often happens so."

"Rubbish, rubbish! Who fears the wolf should never enter the forest.
What? We have lost? Then stake again."

A second ten-gulden piece did we lose, and then I put down a third. The
Grandmother could scarcely remain seated in her chair, so intent was
she upon the little ball as it leapt through the notches of the
ever-revolving wheel. However, the third ten-gulden piece followed the
first two. Upon this the Grandmother went perfectly crazy. She could no
longer sit still, and actually struck the table with her fist when the
croupier cried out, "Trente-six," instead of the desiderated zero.

"To listen to him!" fumed the old lady. "When will that accursed zero
ever turn up? I cannot breathe until I see it. I believe that that
infernal croupier is PURPOSELY keeping it from turning up. Alexis
Ivanovitch, stake TWO golden pieces this time. The moment we cease to
stake, that cursed zero will come turning up, and we shall get nothing."

"My good Madame--"

"Stake, stake! It is not YOUR money."

Accordingly I staked two ten-gulden pieces. The ball went hopping round
the wheel until it began to settle through the notches. Meanwhile the
Grandmother sat as though petrified, with my hand convulsively clutched
in hers.

"Zero!" called the croupier.

"There! You see, you see!" cried the old lady, as she turned and faced
me, wreathed in smiles. "I told you so! It was the Lord God himself who
suggested to me to stake those two coins. Now, how much ought I to
receive? Why do they not pay it out to me? Potapitch! Martha! Where are
they? What has become of our party? Potapitch, Potapitch!"

"Presently, Madame," I whispered. "Potapitch is outside, and they would
decline to admit him to these rooms. See! You are being paid out your
money. Pray take it." The croupiers were making up a heavy packet of
coins, sealed in blue paper, and containing fifty ten gulden pieces,
together with an unsealed packet containing another twenty. I handed
the whole to the old lady in a money-shovel.

"Faites le jeu, messieurs! Faites le jeu, messieurs! Rien ne va plus,"
proclaimed the croupier as once more he invited the company to stake,
and prepared to turn the wheel.

"We shall be too late! He is going to spin again! Stake, stake!" The
Grandmother was in a perfect fever. "Do not hang back! Be quick!" She
seemed almost beside herself, and nudged me as hard as she could.

"Upon what shall I stake, Madame?"

"Upon zero, upon zero! Again upon zero! Stake as much as ever you can.
How much have we got? Seventy ten-gulden pieces? We shall not miss
them, so stake twenty pieces at a time."

"Think a moment, Madame. Sometimes zero does not turn up for two
hundred rounds in succession. I assure you that you may lose all your
capital."

"You are wrong--utterly wrong. Stake, I tell you! What a chattering
tongue you have! I know perfectly well what I am doing." The old lady
was shaking with excitement.

"But the rules do not allow of more than 120 gulden being staked upon
zero at a time."

"How 'do not allow'? Surely you are wrong? Monsieur, monsieur--" here
she nudged the croupier who was sitting on her left, and preparing to
spin--"combien zero? Douze? Douze?"

I hastened to translate.

"Oui, Madame," was the croupier's polite reply. "No single stake must
exceed four thousand florins. That is the regulation."

"Then there is nothing else for it. We must risk in gulden."

"Le jeu est fait!" the croupier called. The wheel revolved, and stopped
at thirty. We had lost!

"Again, again, again! Stake again!" shouted the old lady. Without
attempting to oppose her further, but merely shrugging my shoulders, I
placed twelve more ten-gulden pieces upon the table. The wheel whirled
around and around, with the Grandmother simply quaking as she watched
its revolutions.

"Does she again think that zero is going to be the winning coup?"
thought I, as I stared at her in astonishment. Yet an absolute
assurance of winning was shining on her face; she looked perfectly
convinced that zero was about to be called again. At length the ball
dropped off into one of the notches.

"Zero!" cried the croupier.

"Ah!!!" screamed the old lady as she turned to me in a whirl of triumph.

I myself was at heart a gambler. At that moment I became acutely
conscious both of that fact and of the fact that my hands and knees
were shaking, and that the blood was beating in my brain. Of course
this was a rare occasion--an occasion on which zero had turned up no
less than three times within a dozen rounds; yet in such an event there
was nothing so very surprising, seeing that, only three days ago, I
myself had been a witness to zero turning up THREE TIMES IN SUCCESSION,
so that one of the players who was recording the coups on paper was
moved to remark that for several days past zero had never turned up at
all!

With the Grandmother, as with any one who has won a very large sum, the
management settled up with great attention and respect, since she was
fortunate to have to receive no less than 4200 gulden. Of these gulden
the odd 200 were paid her in gold, and the remainder in bank notes.

This time the old lady did not call for Potapitch; for that she was too
preoccupied. Though not outwardly shaken by the event (indeed, she
seemed perfectly calm), she was trembling inwardly from head to foot.
At length, completely absorbed in the game, she burst out:

"Alexis Ivanovitch, did not the croupier just say that 4000 florins
were the most that could be staked at any one time? Well, take these
4000, and stake them upon the red."

To oppose her was useless. Once more the wheel revolved.

"Rouge!" proclaimed the croupier.

Again 4000 florins--in all 8000!

"Give me them," commanded the Grandmother, "and stake the other 4000
upon the red again."

I did so.

"Rouge!" proclaimed the croupier.

"Twelve thousand!" cried the old lady. "Hand me the whole lot. Put the
gold into this purse here, and count the bank notes. Enough! Let us go
home. Wheel my chair away."



XI

THE chair, with the old lady beaming in it, was wheeled away towards
the doors at the further end of the salon, while our party hastened to
crowd around her, and to offer her their congratulations. In fact,
eccentric as was her conduct, it was also overshadowed by her triumph;
with the result that the General no longer feared to be publicly
compromised by being seen with such a strange woman, but, smiling in a
condescending, cheerfully familiar way, as though he were soothing a
child, he offered his greetings to the old lady. At the same time, both
he and the rest of the spectators were visibly impressed. Everywhere
people kept pointing to the Grandmother, and talking about her. Many
people even walked beside her chair, in order to view her the better
while, at a little distance, Astley was carrying on a conversation on
the subject with two English acquaintances of his. De Griers was simply
overflowing with smiles and compliments, and a number of fine ladies
were staring at the Grandmother as though she had been something
curious.

"Quelle victoire!" exclaimed De Griers.

"Mais, Madame, c'etait du feu!" added Mlle. Blanche with an elusive
smile.

"Yes, I have won twelve thousand florins," replied the old lady. "And
then there is all this gold. With it the total ought to come to nearly
thirteen thousand. How much is that in Russian money? Six thousand
roubles, I think?"

However, I calculated that the sum would exceed seven thousand
roubles--or, at the present rate of exchange, even eight thousand.

"Eight thousand roubles! What a splendid thing! And to think of you
simpletons sitting there and doing nothing! Potapitch! Martha! See what
I have won!"

"How DID you do it, Madame?" Martha exclaimed ecstatically. "Eight
thousand roubles!"

"And I am going to give you fifty gulden apiece. There they are."

Potapitch and Martha rushed towards her to kiss her hand.

"And to each bearer also I will give a ten-gulden piece. Let them have
it out of the gold, Alexis Ivanovitch. But why is this footman bowing
to me, and that other man as well? Are they congratulating me? Well,
let them have ten gulden apiece."

"Madame la princesse--Un pauvre expatrie--Malheur continuel--Les
princes russes sont si genereux!" said a man who for some time past had
been hanging around the old lady's chair--a personage who, dressed in a
shabby frockcoat and coloured waistcoat, kept taking off his cap, and
smiling pathetically.

"Give him ten gulden," said the Grandmother. "No, give him twenty. Now,
enough of that, or I shall never get done with you all. Take a moment's
rest, and then carry me away. Prascovia, I mean to buy a new dress for
you tomorrow. Yes, and for you too, Mlle. Blanche. Please translate,
Prascovia."

"Merci, Madame," replied Mlle. Blanche gratefully as she twisted her
face into the mocking smile which usually she kept only for the benefit
of De Griers and the General. The latter looked confused, and seemed
greatly relieved when we reached the Avenue.

"How surprised Theodosia too will be!" went on the Grandmother
(thinking of the General's nursemaid). "She, like yourselves, shall
have the price of a new gown. Here, Alexis Ivanovitch! Give that beggar
something" (a crooked-backed ragamuffin had approached to stare at us).

"But perhaps he is NOT a beggar--only a rascal," I replied.

"Never mind, never mind. Give him a gulden."

I approached the beggar in question, and handed him the coin. Looking
at me in great astonishment, he silently accepted the gulden, while
from his person there proceeded a strong smell of liquor.

"Have you never tried your luck, Alexis Ivanovitch?"

"No, Madame."

"Yet just now I could see that you were burning to do so?"

"I do mean to try my luck presently."

"Then stake everything upon zero. You have seen how it ought to be
done? How much capital do you possess?"

"Two hundred gulden, Madame."

"Not very much. See here; I will lend you five hundred if you wish.
Take this purse of mine." With that she added sharply to the General:
"But YOU need not expect to receive any."

This seemed to upset him, but he said nothing, and De Griers contented
himself by scowling.

"Que diable!" he whispered to the General. "C'est une terrible vieille."

"Look! Another beggar, another beggar!" exclaimed the grandmother.
"Alexis Ivanovitch, go and give him a gulden."

As she spoke I saw approaching us a grey-headed old man with a wooden
leg--a man who was dressed in a blue frockcoat and carrying a staff. He
looked like an old soldier. As soon as I tendered him the coin he fell
back a step or two, and eyed me threateningly.

"Was ist der Teufel!" he cried, and appended thereto a round dozen of
oaths.

"The man is a perfect fool!" exclaimed the Grandmother, waving her
hand. "Move on now, for I am simply famished. When we have lunched we
will return to that place."

"What?" cried I. "You are going to play again?"

"What else do you suppose?" she retorted. "Are you going only to sit
here, and grow sour, and let me look at you?"

"Madame," said De Griers confidentially, "les chances peuvent tourner.
Une seule mauvaise chance, et vous perdrez tout--surtout avec votre
jeu. C'etait terrible!"

"Oui; vous perdrez absolument," put in Mlle. Blanche.

"What has that got to do with YOU?" retorted the old lady. "It is not
YOUR money that I am going to lose; it is my own. And where is that Mr.
Astley of yours?" she added to myself.

"He stayed behind in the Casino."

"What a pity! He is such a nice sort of man!"

Arriving home, and meeting the landlord on the staircase, the
Grandmother called him to her side, and boasted to him of her
winnings--thereafter doing the same to Theodosia, and conferring upon
her thirty gulden; after which she bid her serve luncheon. The meal
over, Theodosia and Martha broke into a joint flood of ecstasy.

"I was watching you all the time, Madame," quavered Martha, "and I
asked Potapitch what mistress was trying to do. And, my word! the heaps
and heaps of money that were lying upon the table! Never in my life
have I seen so much money. And there were gentlefolk around it, and
other gentlefolk sitting down. So, I asked Potapitch where all these
gentry had come from; for, thought I, maybe the Holy Mother of God will
help our mistress among them. Yes, I prayed for you, Madame, and my
heart died within me, so that I kept trembling and trembling. The Lord
be with her, I thought to myself; and in answer to my prayer He has now
sent you what He has done! Even yet I tremble--I tremble to think of it
all."

"Alexis Ivanovitch," said the old lady, "after luncheon,--that is to
say, about four o'clock--get ready to go out with me again. But in the
meanwhile, good-bye. Do not forget to call a doctor, for I must take
the waters. Now go and get rested a little."

I left the Grandmother's presence in a state of bewilderment.

Vainly I endeavoured to imagine what would become of our party, or what
turn the affair would next take. I could perceive that none of the
party had yet recovered their presence of mind--least of all the
General. The factor of the Grandmother's appearance in place of the
hourly expected telegram to announce her death (with, of course,
resultant legacies) had so upset the whole scheme of intentions and
projects that it was with a decided feeling of apprehension and growing
paralysis that the conspirators viewed any future performances of the
old lady at roulette. Yet this second factor was not quite so important
as the first, since, though the Grandmother had twice declared that she
did not intend to give the General any money, that declaration was not
a complete ground for the abandonment of hope. Certainly De Griers,
who, with the General, was up to the neck in the affair, had not wholly
lost courage; and I felt sure that Mlle. Blanche also--Mlle. Blanche
who was not only as deeply involved as the other two, but also
expectant of becoming Madame General and an important legatee--would
not lightly surrender the position, but would use her every resource of
coquetry upon the old lady, in order to afford a contrast to the
impetuous Polina, who was difficult to understand, and lacked the art
of pleasing.

Yet now, when the Grandmother had just performed an astonishing feat at
roulette; now, when the old lady's personality had been so clearly and
typically revealed as that of a rugged, arrogant woman who was "tombee
en enfance"; now, when everything appeared to be lost,--why, now the
Grandmother was as merry as a child which plays with thistle-down.
"Good Lord!" I thought with, may God forgive me, a most malicious
smile, "every ten-gulden piece which the Grandmother staked must have
raised a blister on the General's heart, and maddened De Griers, and
driven Mlle. de Cominges almost to frenzy with the sight of this spoon
dangling before her lips." Another factor is the circumstance that even
when, overjoyed at winning, the Grandmother was distributing alms right
and left, and taking every one to be a beggar, she again snapped out to
the General that he was not going to be allowed any of her money--which
meant that the old lady had quite made up her mind on the point, and
was sure of it. Yes, danger loomed ahead.

All these thoughts passed through my mind during the few moments that,
having left the old lady's rooms, I was ascending to my own room on the
top storey. What most struck me was the fact that, though I had divined
the chief, the stoutest, threads which united the various actors in the
drama, I had, until now, been ignorant of the methods and secrets of
the game. For Polina had never been completely open with me. Although,
on occasions, it had happened that involuntarily, as it were, she had
revealed to me something of her heart, I had noticed that in most
cases--in fact, nearly always--she had either laughed away these
revelations, or grown confused, or purposely imparted to them a false
guise. Yes, she must have concealed a great deal from me. But, I had a
presentiment that now the end of this strained and mysterious situation
was approaching. Another stroke, and all would be finished and exposed.
Of my own fortunes, interested though I was in the affair, I took no
account. I was in the strange position of possessing but two hundred
gulden, of being at a loose end, of lacking both a post, the means of
subsistence, a shred of hope, and any plans for the future, yet of
caring nothing for these things. Had not my mind been so full of
Polina, I should have given myself up to the comical piquancy of the
impending denouement, and laughed my fill at it. But the thought of
Polina was torture to me. That her fate was settled I already had an
inkling; yet that was not the thought which was giving me so much
uneasiness. What I really wished for was to penetrate her secrets. I
wanted her to come to me and say, "I love you," and, if she would not
so come, or if to hope that she would ever do so was an unthinkable
absurdity--why, then there was nothing else for me to want. Even now I
do not know what I am wanting. I feel like a man who has lost his way.
I yearn but to be in her presence, and within the circle of her light
and splendour--to be there now, and forever, and for the whole of my
life. More I do not know. How can I ever bring myself to leave her?

On reaching the third storey of the hotel I experienced a shock. I was
just passing the General's suite when something caused me to look
round. Out of a door about twenty paces away there was coming Polina!
She hesitated for a moment on seeing me, and then beckoned me to her.

"Polina Alexandrovna!"

"Hush! Not so loud."

"Something startled me just now," I whispered, "and I looked round, and
saw you. Some electrical influence seems to emanate from your form."

"Take this letter," she went on with a frown (probably she had not even
heard my words, she was so preoccupied), "and hand it personally to Mr.
Astley. Go as quickly as ever you can, please. No answer will be
required. He himself--" She did not finish her sentence.

"To Mr. Astley?" I asked, in some astonishment.

But she had vanished again.

Aha! So the two were carrying on a correspondence! However, I set off
to search for Astley--first at his hotel, and then at the Casino, where
I went the round of the salons in vain. At length, vexed, and almost in
despair, I was on my way home when I ran across him among a troop of
English ladies and gentlemen who had been out for a ride. Beckoning to
him to stop, I handed him the letter. We had barely time even to look
at one another, but I suspected that it was of set purpose that he
restarted his horse so quickly.

Was jealousy, then, gnawing at me? At all events, I felt exceedingly
depressed, despite the fact that I had no desire to ascertain what the
correspondence was about. To think that HE should be her confidant! "My
friend, mine own familiar friend!" passed through my mind. Yet WAS
there any love in the matter? "Of course not," reason whispered to me.
But reason goes for little on such occasions. I felt that the matter
must be cleared up, for it was becoming unpleasantly complex.

I had scarcely set foot in the hotel when the commissionaire and the
landlord (the latter issuing from his room for the purpose) alike
informed me that I was being searched for high and low--that three
separate messages to ascertain my whereabouts had come down from the
General. When I entered his study I was feeling anything but kindly
disposed. I found there the General himself, De Griers, and Mlle.
Blanche, but not Mlle.'s mother, who was a person whom her reputed
daughter used only for show purposes, since in all matters of business
the daughter fended for herself, and it is unlikely that the mother
knew anything about them.

Some very heated discussion was in progress, and meanwhile the door of
the study was open--an unprecedented circumstance. As I approached the
portals I could hear loud voices raised, for mingled with the pert,
venomous accents of De Griers were Mlle. Blanche's excited, impudently
abusive tongue and the General's plaintive wail as, apparently, he
sought to justify himself in something. But on my appearance every one
stopped speaking, and tried to put a better face upon matters. De
Griers smoothed his hair, and twisted his angry face into a smile--into
the mean, studiedly polite French smile which I so detested; while the
downcast, perplexed General assumed an air of dignity--though only in a
mechanical way. On the other hand, Mlle. Blanche did not trouble to
conceal the wrath that was sparkling in her countenance, but bent her
gaze upon me with an air of impatient expectancy. I may remark that
hitherto she had treated me with absolute superciliousness, and, so far
from answering my salutations, had always ignored them.

"Alexis Ivanovitch," began the General in a tone of affectionate
upbraiding, "may I say to you that I find it strange, exceedingly
strange, that--In short, your conduct towards myself and my family-- In
a word, your--er--extremely--"

"Eh! Ce n'est pas ca," interrupted De Griers in a tone of impatience
and contempt (evidently he was the ruling spirit of the conclave). "Mon
cher monsieur, notre general se trompe. What he means to say is that he
warns you--he begs of you most earnestly--not to ruin him. I use the
expression because--"

"Why? Why?" I interjected.

"Because you have taken upon yourself to act as guide to this, to
this--how shall I express it?--to this old lady, a cette pauvre
terrible vieille. But she will only gamble away all that she
has--gamble it away like thistledown. You yourself have seen her play.
Once she has acquired the taste for gambling, she will never leave the
roulette-table, but, of sheer perversity and temper, will stake her
all, and lose it. In cases such as hers a gambler can never be torn
away from the game; and then--and then--"

"And then," asseverated the General, "you will have ruined my whole
family. I and my family are her heirs, for she has no nearer relatives
than ourselves. I tell you frankly that my affairs are in great--very
great disorder; how much they are so you yourself are partially aware.
If she should lose a large sum, or, maybe, her whole fortune, what will
become of us--of my children" (here the General exchanged a glance with
De Griers) "or of me?" (here he looked at Mlle. Blanche, who turned her
head contemptuously away). "Alexis Ivanovitch, I beg of you to save us."

"Tell me, General, how am I to do so? On what footing do I stand here?"

"Refuse to take her about. Simply leave her alone."

"But she would soon find some one else to take my place?"

"Ce n'est pas ca, ce n'est pas ca," again interrupted De Griers. "Que
diable! Do not leave her alone so much as advise her, persuade her,
draw her away. In any case do not let her gamble; find her some
counter-attraction."

"And how am I to do that? If only you would undertake the task,
Monsieur de Griers!" I said this last as innocently as possible, but at
once saw a rapid glance of excited interrogation pass from Mlle.
Blanche to De Griers, while in the face of the latter also there
gleamed something which he could not repress.

"Well, at the present moment she would refuse to accept my services,"
said he with a gesture. "But if, later--"

Here he gave Mlle. Blanche another glance which was full of meaning;
whereupon she advanced towards me with a bewitching smile, and seized
and pressed my hands. Devil take it, but how that devilish visage of
hers could change! At the present moment it was a visage full of
supplication, and as gentle in its expression as that of a smiling,
roguish infant. Stealthily, she drew me apart from the rest as though
the more completely to separate me from them; and, though no harm came
of her doing so--for it was merely a stupid manoeuvre, and no more--I
found the situation very unpleasant.

The General hastened to lend her his support.

"Alexis Ivanovitch," he began, "pray pardon me for having said what I
did just now--for having said more than I meant to do. I beg and
beseech you, I kiss the hem of your garment, as our Russian saying has
it, for you, and only you, can save us. I and Mlle. de Cominges, we all
of us beg of you--But you understand, do you not? Surely you
understand?" and with his eyes he indicated Mlle. Blanche. Truly he was
cutting a pitiful figure!

At this moment three low, respectful knocks sounded at the door; which,
on being opened, revealed a chambermaid, with Potapitch behind
her--come from the Grandmother to request that I should attend her in
her rooms. "She is in a bad humour," added Potapitch.

The time was half-past three.

"My mistress was unable to sleep," explained Potapitch; "so, after
tossing about for a while, she suddenly rose, called for her chair, and
sent me to look for you. She is now in the verandah."

"Quelle megere!" exclaimed De Griers.

True enough, I found Madame in the hotel verandah--much put about at my
delay, for she had been unable to contain herself until four o'clock.

"Lift me up," she cried to the bearers, and once more we set out for
the roulette-salons.



XII

The Grandmother was in an impatient, irritable frame of mind. Without
doubt the roulette had turned her head, for she appeared to be
indifferent to everything else, and, in general, seemed much
distraught. For instance, she asked me no questions about objects en
route, except that, when a sumptuous barouche passed us and raised a
cloud of dust, she lifted her hand for a moment, and inquired, "What
was that?" Yet even then she did not appear to hear my reply, although
at times her abstraction was interrupted by sallies and fits of sharp,
impatient fidgeting. Again, when I pointed out to her the Baron and
Baroness Burmergelm walking to the Casino, she merely looked at them in
an absent-minded sort of way, and said with complete indifference,
"Ah!" Then, turning sharply to Potapitch and Martha, who were walking
behind us, she rapped out:

"Why have YOU attached yourselves to the party? We are not going to
take you with us every time. Go home at once." Then, when the servants
had pulled hasty bows and departed, she added to me: "You are all the
escort I need."

At the Casino the Grandmother seemed to be expected, for no time was
lost in procuring her former place beside the croupier. It is my
opinion that though croupiers seem such ordinary, humdrum
officials--men who care nothing whether the bank wins or loses--they
are, in reality, anything but indifferent to the bank's losing, and are
given instructions to attract players, and to keep a watch over the
bank's interests; as also, that for such services, these officials are
awarded prizes and premiums. At all events, the croupiers of
Roulettenberg seemed to look upon the Grandmother as their lawful
prey--whereafter there befell what our party had foretold.

It happened thus:

As soon as ever we arrived the Grandmother ordered me to stake twelve
ten-gulden pieces in succession upon zero. Once, twice, and thrice I
did so, yet zero never turned up.

"Stake again," said the old lady with an impatient nudge of my elbow,
and I obeyed.

"How many times have we lost?" she inquired--actually grinding her
teeth in her excitement.

"We have lost 144 ten-gulden pieces," I replied. "I tell you, Madame,
that zero may not turn up until nightfall."

"Never mind," she interrupted. "Keep on staking upon zero, and also
stake a thousand gulden upon rouge. Here is a banknote with which to do
so."

The red turned up, but zero missed again, and we only got our thousand
gulden back.

"But you see, you see," whispered the old lady. "We have now recovered
almost all that we staked. Try zero again. Let us do so another ten
times, and then leave off."

By the fifth round, however, the Grandmother was weary of the scheme.

"To the devil with that zero!" she exclaimed. "Stake four thousand
gulden upon the red."

"But, Madame, that will be so much to venture!" I remonstrated.
"Suppose the red should not turn up?" The Grandmother almost struck me
in her excitement. Her agitation was rapidly making her quarrelsome.
Consequently, there was nothing for it but to stake the whole four
thousand gulden as she had directed.

The wheel revolved while the Grandmother sat as bolt upright, and with
as proud and quiet a mien, as though she had not the least doubt of
winning.

"Zero!" cried the croupier.

At first the old lady failed to understand the situation; but, as soon
as she saw the croupier raking in her four thousand gulden, together
with everything else that happened to be lying on the table, and
recognised that the zero which had been so long turning up, and on
which we had lost nearly two hundred ten-gulden pieces, had at length,
as though of set purpose, made a sudden reappearance--why, the poor old
lady fell to cursing it, and to throwing herself about, and wailing and
gesticulating at the company at large. Indeed, some people in our
vicinity actually burst out laughing.

"To think that that accursed zero should have turned up NOW!" she
sobbed. "The accursed, accursed thing! And, it is all YOUR fault," she
added, rounding upon me in a frenzy. "It was you who persuaded me to
cease staking upon it."

"But, Madame, I only explained the game to you. How am I to answer for
every mischance which may occur in it?"

"You and your mischances!" she whispered threateningly. "Go! Away at
once!"

"Farewell, then, Madame." And I turned to depart.

"No--stay," she put in hastily. "Where are you going to? Why should you
leave me? You fool! No, no... stay here. It is I who was the fool. Tell
me what I ought to do."

"I cannot take it upon myself to advise you, for you will only blame me
if I do so. Play at your own discretion. Say exactly what you wish
staked, and I will stake it."

"Very well. Stake another four thousand gulden upon the red. Take this
banknote to do it with. I have still got twenty thousand roubles in
actual cash."

"But," I whispered, "such a quantity of money--"

"Never mind. I cannot rest until I have won back my losses. Stake!"

I staked, and we lost.

"Stake again, stake again--eight thousand at a stroke!"

"I cannot, Madame. The largest stake allowed is four thousand gulden."

"Well, then; stake four thousand."

This time we won, and the Grandmother recovered herself a little.

"You see, you see!" she exclaimed as she nudged me. "Stake another four
thousand."

I did so, and lost. Again, and yet again, we lost. "Madame, your twelve
thousand gulden are now gone," at length I reported.

"I see they are," she replied with, as it were, the calmness of
despair. "I see they are," she muttered again as she gazed straight in
front of her, like a person lost in thought. "Ah well, I do not mean to
rest until I have staked another four thousand."

"But you have no money with which to do it, Madame. In this satchel I
can see only a few five percent bonds and some transfers--no actual
cash."

"And in the purse?"

"A mere trifle."

"But there is a money-changer's office here, is there not? They told me
I should be able to get any sort of paper security changed!"

"Quite so; to any amount you please. But you will lose on the
transaction what would frighten even a Jew."

"Rubbish! I am DETERMINED to retrieve my losses. Take me away, and call
those fools of bearers."

I wheeled the chair out of the throng, and, the bearers making their
appearance, we left the Casino.

"Hurry, hurry!" commanded the Grandmother. "Show me the nearest way to
the money-changer's. Is it far?"

"A couple of steps, Madame."

At the turning from the square into the Avenue we came face to face
with the whole of our party--the General, De Griers, Mlle. Blanche, and
her mother. Only Polina and Mr. Astley were absent.

"Well, well, well!" exclaimed the Grandmother. "But we have no time to
stop. What do you want? I can't talk to you here."

I dropped behind a little, and immediately was pounced upon by De
Griers.

"She has lost this morning's winnings," I whispered, "and also twelve
thousand gulden of her original money. At the present moment we are
going to get some bonds changed."

De Griers stamped his foot with vexation, and hastened to communicate
the tidings to the General. Meanwhile we continued to wheel the old
lady along.

"Stop her, stop her," whispered the General in consternation.

"You had better try and stop her yourself," I returned--also in a
whisper.

"My good mother," he said as he approached her, "--my good mother, pray
let, let--" (his voice was beginning to tremble and sink) "--let us
hire a carriage, and go for a drive. Near here there is an enchanting
view to be obtained. We-we-we were just coming to invite you to go and
see it."

"Begone with you and your views!" said the Grandmother angrily as she
waved him away.

"And there are trees there, and we could have tea under them,"
continued the General--now in utter despair.

"Nous boirons du lait, sur l'herbe fraiche," added De Griers with the
snarl almost of a wild beast.

"Du lait, de l'herbe fraiche"--the idyll, the ideal of the Parisian
bourgeois--his whole outlook upon "la nature et la verite"!

"Have done with you and your milk!" cried the old lady. "Go and stuff
YOURSELF as much as you like, but my stomach simply recoils from the
idea. What are you stopping for? I have nothing to say to you."

"Here we are, Madame," I announced. "Here is the moneychanger's office."

I entered to get the securities changed, while the Grandmother remained
outside in the porch, and the rest waited at a little distance, in
doubt as to their best course of action. At length the old lady turned
such an angry stare upon them that they departed along the road towards
the Casino.

The process of changing involved complicated calculations which soon
necessitated my return to the Grandmother for instructions.

"The thieves!" she exclaimed as she clapped her hands together. "Never
mind, though. Get the documents cashed--No; send the banker out to me,"
she added as an afterthought.

"Would one of the clerks do, Madame?"

"Yes, one of the clerks. The thieves!"

The clerk consented to come out when he perceived that he was being
asked for by an old lady who was too infirm to walk; after which the
Grandmother began to upbraid him at length, and with great vehemence,
for his alleged usuriousness, and to bargain with him in a mixture of
Russian, French, and German--I acting as interpreter. Meanwhile, the
grave-faced official eyed us both, and silently nodded his head. At the
Grandmother, in particular, he gazed with a curiosity which almost
bordered upon rudeness. At length, too, he smiled.

"Pray recollect yourself!" cried the old lady. "And may my money choke
you! Alexis Ivanovitch, tell him that we can easily repair to someone
else."

"The clerk says that others will give you even less than he."

Of what the ultimate calculations consisted I do not exactly remember,
but at all events they were alarming. Receiving twelve thousand florins
in gold, I took also the statement of accounts, and carried it out to
the Grandmother.

"Well, well," she said, "I am no accountant. Let us hurry away, hurry
away." And she waved the paper aside.

"Neither upon that accursed zero, however, nor upon that equally
accursed red do I mean to stake a cent," I muttered to myself as I
entered the Casino.

This time I did all I could to persuade the old lady to stake as little
as possible--saying that a turn would come in the chances when she
would be at liberty to stake more. But she was so impatient that,
though at first she agreed to do as I suggested, nothing could stop her
when once she had begun. By way of prelude she won stakes of a hundred
and two hundred gulden.

"There you are!" she said as she nudged me. "See what we have won!
Surely it would be worth our while to stake four thousand instead of a
hundred, for we might win another four thousand, and then--! Oh, it was
YOUR fault before--all your fault!"

I felt greatly put out as I watched her play, but I decided to hold my
tongue, and to give her no more advice.

Suddenly De Griers appeared on the scene. It seemed that all this while
he and his companions had been standing beside us--though I noticed
that Mlle. Blanche had withdrawn a little from the rest, and was
engaged in flirting with the Prince. Clearly the General was greatly
put out at this. Indeed, he was in a perfect agony of vexation. But
Mlle. was careful never to look his way, though he did his best to
attract her notice. Poor General! By turns his face blanched and
reddened, and he was trembling to such an extent that he could scarcely
follow the old lady's play. At length Mlle. and the Prince took their
departure, and the General followed them.

"Madame, Madame," sounded the honeyed accents of De Griers as he leant
over to whisper in the Grandmother's ear. "That stake will never win.
No, no, it is impossible," he added in Russian with a writhe. "No, no!"

"But why not?" asked the Grandmother, turning round. "Show me what I
ought to do."

Instantly De Griers burst into a babble of French as he advised, jumped
about, declared that such and such chances ought to be waited for, and
started to make calculations of figures. All this he addressed to me in
my capacity as translator--tapping the table the while with his finger,
and pointing hither and thither. At length he seized a pencil, and
began to reckon sums on paper until he had exhausted the Grandmother's
patience.

"Away with you!" she interrupted. "You talk sheer nonsense, for, though
you keep on saying 'Madame, Madame,' you haven't the least notion what
ought to be done. Away with you, I say!"

"Mais, Madame," cooed De Griers--and straightway started afresh with
his fussy instructions.

"Stake just ONCE, as he advises," the Grandmother said to me, "and then
we shall see what we shall see. Of course, his stake MIGHT win."

As a matter of fact, De Grier's one object was to distract the old lady
from staking large sums; wherefore, he now suggested to her that she
should stake upon certain numbers, singly and in groups. Consequently,
in accordance with his instructions, I staked a ten-gulden piece upon
several odd numbers in the first twenty, and five ten-gulden pieces
upon certain groups of numbers-groups of from twelve to eighteen, and
from eighteen to twenty-four. The total staked amounted to 160 gulden.

The wheel revolved. "Zero!" cried the croupier.

We had lost it all!

"The fool!" cried the old lady as she turned upon De Griers. "You
infernal Frenchman, to think that you should advise! Away with you!
Though you fuss and fuss, you don't even know what you're talking
about."

Deeply offended, De Griers shrugged his shoulders, favoured the
Grandmother with a look of contempt, and departed. For some time past
he had been feeling ashamed of being seen in such company, and this had
proved the last straw.

An hour later we had lost everything in hand.

"Home!" cried the Grandmother.

Not until we had turned into the Avenue did she utter a word; but from
that point onwards, until we arrived at the hotel, she kept venting
exclamations of "What a fool I am! What a silly old fool I am, to be
sure!"

Arrived at the hotel, she called for tea, and then gave orders for her
luggage to be packed.

"We are off again," she announced.

"But whither, Madame?" inquired Martha.

"What business is that of YOURS? Let the cricket stick to its hearth.
[The Russian form of "Mind your own business."] Potapitch, have
everything packed, for we are returning to Moscow at once. I have
fooled away fifteen thousand roubles."

"Fifteen thousand roubles, good mistress? My God!" And Potapitch spat
upon his hands--probably to show that he was ready to serve her in any
way he could.

"Now then, you fool! At once you begin with your weeping and wailing!
Be quiet, and pack. Also, run downstairs, and get my hotel bill."

"The next train leaves at 9:30, Madame," I interposed, with a view to
checking her agitation.

"And what is the time now?"

"Half-past eight."

"How vexing! But, never mind. Alexis Ivanovitch, I have not a kopeck
left; I have but these two bank notes. Please run to the office and get
them changed. Otherwise I shall have nothing to travel with."

Departing on her errand, I returned half an hour later to find the
whole party gathered in her rooms. It appeared that the news of her
impending departure for Moscow had thrown the conspirators into
consternation even greater than her losses had done. For, said they,
even if her departure should save her fortune, what will become of the
General later? And who is to repay De Griers? Clearly Mlle. Blanche
would never consent to wait until the Grandmother was dead, but would
at once elope with the Prince or someone else. So they had all gathered
together--endeavouring to calm and dissuade the Grandmother. Only
Polina was absent. For her part the Grandmother had nothing for the
party but abuse.

"Away with you, you rascals!" she was shouting. "What have my affairs
to do with you? Why, in particular, do you"--here she indicated De
Griers--"come sneaking here with your goat's beard? And what do
YOU"--here she turned to Mlle. Blanche "want of me? What are YOU
finicking for?"

"Diantre!" muttered Mlle. under her breath, but her eyes were flashing.
Then all at once she burst into a laugh and left the room--crying to
the General as she did so: "Elle vivra cent ans!"

"So you have been counting upon my death, have you?" fumed the old
lady. "Away with you! Clear them out of the room, Alexis Ivanovitch.
What business is it of THEIRS? It is not THEIR money that I have been
squandering, but my own."

The General shrugged his shoulders, bowed, and withdrew, with De Griers
behind him.

"Call Prascovia," commanded the Grandmother, and in five minutes Martha
reappeared with Polina, who had been sitting with the children in her
own room (having purposely determined not to leave it that day). Her
face looked grave and careworn.

"Prascovia," began the Grandmother, "is what I have just heard through
a side wind true--namely, that this fool of a stepfather of yours is
going to marry that silly whirligig of a Frenchwoman--that actress, or
something worse? Tell me, is it true?"

"I do not know FOR CERTAIN, Grandmamma," replied Polina; "but from
Mlle. Blanche's account (for she does not appear to think it necessary
to conceal anything) I conclude that--"

"You need not say any more," interrupted the Grandmother energetically.
"I understand the situation. I always thought we should get something
like this from him, for I always looked upon him as a futile, frivolous
fellow who gave himself unconscionable airs on the fact of his being a
general (though he only became one because he retired as a colonel).
Yes, I know all about the sending of the telegrams to inquire whether
'the old woman is likely to turn up her toes soon.' Ah, they were
looking for the legacies! Without money that wretched woman (what is
her name?--Oh, De Cominges) would never dream of accepting the General
and his false teeth--no, not even for him to be her lacquey--since she
herself, they say, possesses a pile of money, and lends it on interest,
and makes a good thing out of it. However, it is not you, Prascovia,
that I am blaming; it was not you who sent those telegrams. Nor, for
that matter, do I wish to recall old scores. True, I know that you are
a vixen by nature--that you are a wasp which will sting one if one
touches it--yet, my heart is sore for you, for I loved your mother,
Katerina. Now, will you leave everything here, and come away with me?
Otherwise, I do not know what is to become of you, and it is not right
that you should continue living with these people. Nay," she
interposed, the moment that Polina attempted to speak, "I have not yet
finished. I ask of you nothing in return. My house in Moscow is, as you
know, large enough for a palace, and you could occupy a whole floor of
it if you liked, and keep away from me for weeks together. Will you
come with me or will you not?"

"First of all, let me ask of YOU," replied Polina, "whether you are
intending to depart at once?"

"What? You suppose me to be jesting? I have said that I am going, and I
AM going. Today I have squandered fifteen thousand roubles at that
accursed roulette of yours, and though, five years ago, I promised the
people of a certain suburb of Moscow to build them a stone church in
place of a wooden one, I have been fooling away my money here! However,
I am going back now to build my church."

"But what about the waters, Grandmamma? Surely you came here to take
the waters?"

"You and your waters! Do not anger me, Prascovia. Surely you are trying
to? Say, then: will you, or will you not, come with me?"

"Grandmamma," Polina replied with deep feeling, "I am very, very
grateful to you for the shelter which you have so kindly offered me.
Also, to a certain extent you have guessed my position aright, and I am
beholden to you to such an extent that it may be that I will come and
live with you, and that very soon; yet there are important reasons
why--why I cannot make up my mind just yet. If you would let me have,
say, a couple of weeks to decide in--?"

"You mean that you are NOT coming?"

"I mean only that I cannot come just yet. At all events, I could not
well leave my little brother and sister here, since, since--if I were
to leave them--they would be abandoned altogether. But if, Grandmamma,
you would take the little ones AND myself, then, of course, I could
come with you, and would do all I could to serve you" (this she said
with great earnestness). "Only, without the little ones I CANNOT come."

"Do not make a fuss" (as a matter of fact Polina never at any time
either fussed or wept). "The Great Foster--Father [Translated
literally--The Great Poulterer] can find for all his chicks a place.
You are not coming without the children? But see here, Prascovia. I
wish you well, and nothing but well: yet I have divined the reason why
you will not come. Yes, I know all, Prascovia. That Frenchman will
never bring you good of any sort."

Polina coloured hotly, and even I started. "For," thought I to myself,
"every one seems to know about that affair. Or perhaps I am the only
one who does not know about it?"

"Now, now! Do not frown," continued the Grandmother. "But I do not
intend to slur things over. You will take care that no harm befalls
you, will you not? For you are a girl of sense, and I am sorry for
you--I regard you in a different light to the rest of them. And now,
please, leave me. Good-bye."

"But let me stay with you a little longer," said Polina.

"No," replied the other; "you need not. Do not bother me, for you and
all of them have tired me out."

Yet when Polina tried to kiss the Grandmother's hand, the old lady
withdrew it, and herself kissed the girl on the cheek. As she passed
me, Polina gave me a momentary glance, and then as swiftly averted her
eyes.

"And good-bye to you, also, Alexis Ivanovitch. The train starts in an
hour's time, and I think that you must be weary of me. Take these five
hundred gulden for yourself."

"I thank you humbly, Madame, but I am ashamed to--"

"Come, come!" cried the Grandmother so energetically, and with such an
air of menace, that I did not dare refuse the money further.

"If, when in Moscow, you have no place where you can lay your head,"
she added, "come and see me, and I will give you a recommendation. Now,
Potapitch, get things ready."

I ascended to my room, and lay down upon the bed. A whole hour I must
have lain thus, with my head resting upon my hand. So the crisis had
come! I needed time for its consideration. To-morrow I would have a
talk with Polina. Ah! The Frenchman! So, it was true? But how could it
be so? Polina and De Griers! What a combination!

No, it was too improbable. Suddenly I leapt up with the idea of seeking
Astley and forcing him to speak. There could be no doubt that he knew
more than I did. Astley? Well, he was another problem for me to solve.

Suddenly there came a knock at the door, and I opened it to find
Potapitch awaiting me.

"Sir," he said, "my mistress is asking for you."

"Indeed? But she is just departing, is she not? The train leaves in ten
minutes' time."

"She is uneasy, sir; she cannot rest. Come quickly, sir; do not delay."

I ran downstairs at once. The Grandmother was just being carried out of
her rooms into the corridor. In her hands she held a roll of bank-notes.

"Alexis Ivanovitch," she cried, "walk on ahead, and we will set out
again."

"But whither, Madame?"

"I cannot rest until I have retrieved my losses. March on ahead, and
ask me no questions. Play continues until midnight, does it not?"

For a moment I stood stupefied--stood deep in thought; but it was not
long before I had made up my mind.

"With your leave, Madame," I said, "I will not go with you."

"And why not? What do you mean? Is every one here a stupid
good-for-nothing?"

"Pardon me, but I have nothing to reproach myself with. I merely will
not go. I merely intend neither to witness nor to join in your play. I
also beg to return you your five hundred gulden. Farewell."

Laying the money upon a little table which the Grandmother's chair
happened to be passing, I bowed and withdrew.

"What folly!" the Grandmother shouted after me. "Very well, then. Do
not come, and I will find my way alone. Potapitch, you must come with
me. Lift up the chair, and carry me along."

I failed to find Mr. Astley, and returned home. It was now growing
late--it was past midnight, but I subsequently learnt from Potapitch
how the Grandmother's day had ended. She had lost all the money which,
earlier in the day, I had got for her paper securities--a sum amounting
to about ten thousand roubles. This she did under the direction of the
Pole whom, that afternoon, she had dowered with two ten-gulden pieces.
But before his arrival on the scene, she had commanded Potapitch to
stake for her; until at length she had told him also to go about his
business. Upon that the Pole had leapt into the breach. Not only did it
happen that he knew the Russian language, but also he could speak a
mixture of three different dialects, so that the pair were able to
understand one another. Yet the old lady never ceased to abuse him,
despite his deferential manner, and to compare him unfavourably with
myself (so, at all events, Potapitch declared). "You," the old
chamberlain said to me, "treated her as a gentleman should, but he--he
robbed her right and left, as I could see with my own eyes. Twice she
caught him at it, and rated him soundly. On one occasion she even
pulled his hair, so that the bystanders burst out laughing. Yet she
lost everything, sir--that is to say, she lost all that you had changed
for her. Then we brought her home, and, after asking for some water and
saying her prayers, she went to bed. So worn out was she that she fell
asleep at once. May God send her dreams of angels! And this is all that
foreign travel has done for us! Oh, my own Moscow! For what have we not
at home there, in Moscow? Such a garden and flowers as you could never
see here, and fresh air and apple-trees coming into blossom,--and a
beautiful view to look upon. Ah, but what must she do but go travelling
abroad? Alack, alack!"



XIII

Almost a month has passed since I last touched these notes--notes which
I began under the influence of impressions at once poignant and
disordered. The crisis which I then felt to be approaching has now
arrived, but in a form a hundred times more extensive and unexpected
than I had looked for. To me it all seems strange, uncouth, and tragic.
Certain occurrences have befallen me which border upon the marvellous.
At all events, that is how I view them. I view them so in one regard at
least. I refer to the whirlpool of events in which, at the time, I was
revolving. But the most curious feature of all is my relation to those
events, for hitherto I had never clearly understood myself. Yet now the
actual crisis has passed away like a dream. Even my passion for Polina
is dead. Was it ever so strong and genuine as I thought? If so, what
has become of it now? At times I fancy that I must be mad; that
somewhere I am sitting in a madhouse; that these events have merely
SEEMED to happen; that still they merely SEEM to be happening.

I have been arranging and re-perusing my notes (perhaps for the purpose
of convincing myself that I am not in a madhouse). At present I am
lonely and alone. Autumn is coming--already it is mellowing the leaves;
and, as I sit brooding in this melancholy little town (and how
melancholy the little towns of Germany can be!), I find myself taking
no thought for the future, but living under the influence of passing
moods, and of my recollections of the tempest which recently drew me
into its vortex, and then cast me out again. At times I seem still to
be caught within that vortex. At times, the tempest seems once more to
be gathering, and, as it passes overhead, to be wrapping me in its
folds, until I have lost my sense of order and reality, and continue
whirling and whirling and whirling around.

Yet, it may be that I shall be able to stop myself from revolving if
once I can succeed in rendering myself an exact account of what has
happened within the month just past. Somehow I feel drawn towards the
pen; on many and many an evening I have had nothing else in the world
to do. But, curiously enough, of late I have taken to amusing myself
with the works of M. Paul de Kock, which I read in German translations
obtained from a wretched local library. These works I cannot abide, yet
I read them, and find myself marvelling that I should be doing so.
Somehow I seem to be afraid of any SERIOUS book--afraid of permitting
any SERIOUS preoccupation to break the spell of the passing moment. So
dear to me is the formless dream of which I have spoken, so dear to me
are the impressions which it has left behind it, that I fear to touch
the vision with anything new, lest it should dissolve in smoke. But is
it so dear to me? Yes, it IS dear to me, and will ever be fresh in my
recollections--even forty years hence....

So let me write of it, but only partially, and in a more abridged form
than my full impressions might warrant.

First of all, let me conclude the history of the Grandmother. Next day
she lost every gulden that she possessed. Things were bound to happen
so, for persons of her type who have once entered upon that road
descend it with ever-increasing rapidity, even as a sledge descends a
toboggan-slide. All day until eight o'clock that evening did she play;
and, though I personally did not witness her exploits, I learnt of them
later through report.

All that day Potapitch remained in attendance upon her; but the Poles
who directed her play she changed more than once. As a beginning she
dismissed her Pole of the previous day--the Pole whose hair she had
pulled--and took to herself another one; but the latter proved worse
even than the former, and incurred dismissal in favour of the first
Pole, who, during the time of his unemployment, had nevertheless
hovered around the Grandmother's chair, and from time to time obtruded
his head over her shoulder. At length the old lady became desperate,
for the second Pole, when dismissed, imitated his predecessor by
declining to go away; with the result that one Pole remained standing
on the right of the victim, and the other on her left; from which
vantage points the pair quarrelled, abused each other concerning the
stakes and rounds, and exchanged the epithet "laidak" [Rascal] and
other Polish terms of endearment. Finally, they effected a mutual
reconciliation, and, tossing the money about anyhow, played simply at
random. Once more quarrelling, each of them staked money on his own
side of the Grandmother's chair (for instance, the one Pole staked upon
the red, and the other one upon the black), until they had so confused
and browbeaten the old lady that, nearly weeping, she was forced to
appeal to the head croupier for protection, and to have the two Poles
expelled. No time was lost in this being done, despite the rascals'
cries and protestations that the old lady was in their debt, that she
had cheated them, and that her general behaviour had been mean and
dishonourable. The same evening the unfortunate Potapitch related the
story to me with tears complaining that the two men had filled their
pockets with money (he himself had seen them do it) which had been
shamelessly pilfered from his mistress. For instance, one Pole demanded
of the Grandmother fifty gulden for his trouble, and then staked the
money by the side of her stake. She happened to win; whereupon he cried
out that the winning stake was his, and hers the loser. As soon as the
two Poles had been expelled, Potapitch left the room, and reported to
the authorities that the men's pockets were full of gold; and, on the
Grandmother also requesting the head croupier to look into the affair,
the police made their appearance, and, despite the protests of the
Poles (who, indeed, had been caught redhanded), their pockets were
turned inside out, and the contents handed over to the Grandmother. In
fact, in, view of the circumstance that she lost all day, the croupiers
and other authorities of the Casino showed her every attention; and on
her fame spreading through the town, visitors of every
nationality--even the most knowing of them, the most
distinguished--crowded to get a glimpse of "la vieille comtesse russe,
tombee en enfance," who had lost "so many millions."

Yet with the money which the authorities restored to her from the
pockets of the Poles the Grandmother effected very, very little, for
there soon arrived to take his countrymen's place, a third Pole--a man
who could speak Russian fluently, was dressed like a gentleman (albeit
in lacqueyish fashion), and sported a huge moustache. Though polite
enough to the old lady, he took a high hand with the bystanders. In
short, he offered himself less as a servant than as an ENTERTAINER.
After each round he would turn to the old lady, and swear terrible
oaths to the effect that he was a "Polish gentleman of honour" who
would scorn to take a kopeck of her money; and, though he repeated
these oaths so often that at length she grew alarmed, he had her play
in hand, and began to win on her behalf; wherefore, she felt that she
could not well get rid of him. An hour later the two Poles who, earlier
in the day, had been expelled from the Casino, made a reappearance
behind the old lady's chair, and renewed their offers of service--even
if it were only to be sent on messages; but from Potapitch I
subsequently had it that between these rascals and the said "gentleman
of honour" there passed a wink, as well as that the latter put
something into their hands. Next, since the Grandmother had not yet
lunched--she had scarcely for a moment left her chair--one of the two
Poles ran to the restaurant of the Casino, and brought her thence a cup
of soup, and afterwards some tea. In fact, BOTH the Poles hastened to
perform this office. Finally, towards the close of the day, when it was
clear that the Grandmother was about to play her last bank-note, there
could be seen standing behind her chair no fewer than six natives of
Poland--persons who, as yet, had been neither audible nor visible; and
as soon as ever the old lady played the note in question, they took no
further notice of her, but pushed their way past her chair to the
table; seized the money, and staked it--shouting and disputing the
while, and arguing with the "gentleman of honour" (who also had
forgotten the Grandmother's existence), as though he were their equal.
Even when the Grandmother had lost her all, and was returning (about
eight o'clock) to the hotel, some three or four Poles could not bring
themselves to leave her, but went on running beside her chair and
volubly protesting that the Grandmother had cheated them, and that she
ought to be made to surrender what was not her own. Thus the party
arrived at the hotel; whence, presently, the gang of rascals was
ejected neck and crop.

According to Potapitch's calculations, the Grandmother lost, that day,
a total of ninety thousand roubles, in addition to the money which she
had lost the day before. Every paper security which she had brought
with her--five percent bonds, internal loan scrip, and what not--she
had changed into cash. Also, I could not but marvel at the way in
which, for seven or eight hours at a stretch, she sat in that chair of
hers, almost never leaving the table. Again, Potapitch told me that
there were three occasions on which she really began to win; but that,
led on by false hopes, she was unable to tear herself away at the right
moment. Every gambler knows how a person may sit a day and a night at
cards without ever casting a glance to right or to left.

Meanwhile, that day some other very important events were passing in
our hotel. As early as eleven o'clock--that is to say, before the
Grandmother had quitted her rooms--the General and De Griers decided
upon their last stroke. In other words, on learning that the old lady
had changed her mind about departing, and was bent on setting out for
the Casino again, the whole of our gang (Polina only excepted)
proceeded en masse to her rooms, for the purpose of finally and frankly
treating with her. But the General, quaking and greatly apprehensive as
to his possible future, overdid things. After half an hour's prayers
and entreaties, coupled with a full confession of his debts, and even
of his passion for Mlle. Blanche (yes, he had quite lost his head), he
suddenly adopted a tone of menace, and started to rage at the old
lady--exclaiming that she was sullying the family honour, that she was
making a public scandal of herself, and that she was smirching the fair
name of Russia. The upshot was that the Grandmother turned him out of
the room with her stick (it was a real stick, too!). Later in the
morning he held several consultations with De Griers--the question
which occupied him being: Is it in any way possible to make use of the
police--to tell them that "this respected, but unfortunate, old lady
has gone out of her mind, and is squandering her last kopeck," or
something of the kind? In short, is it in any way possible to engineer
a species of supervision over, or of restraint upon, the old lady? De
Griers, however, shrugged his shoulders at this, and laughed in the
General's face, while the old warrior went on chattering volubly, and
running up and down his study. Finally De Griers waved his hand, and
disappeared from view; and by evening it became known that he had left
the hotel, after holding a very secret and important conference with
Mlle. Blanche. As for the latter, from early morning she had taken
decisive measures, by completely excluding the General from her
presence, and bestowing upon him not a glance. Indeed, even when the
General pursued her to the Casino, and met her walking arm in arm with
the Prince, he (the General) received from her and her mother not the
slightest recognition. Nor did the Prince himself bow. The rest of the
day Mlle. spent in probing the Prince, and trying to make him declare
himself; but in this she made a woeful mistake. The little incident
occurred in the evening. Suddenly Mlle. Blanche realised that the
Prince had not even a copper to his name, but, on the contrary, was
minded to borrow of her money wherewith to play at roulette. In high
displeasure she drove him from her presence, and shut herself up in her
room.

The same morning I went to see--or, rather, to look for--Mr. Astley,
but was unsuccessful in my quest. Neither in his rooms nor in the
Casino nor in the Park was he to be found; nor did he, that day, lunch
at his hotel as usual. However, at about five o'clock I caught sight of
him walking from the railway station to the Hotel d'Angleterre. He
seemed to be in a great hurry and much preoccupied, though in his face
I could discern no actual traces of worry or perturbation. He held out
to me a friendly hand, with his usual ejaculation of "Ah!" but did not
check his stride. I turned and walked beside him, but found, somehow,
that his answers forbade any putting of definite questions. Moreover, I
felt reluctant to speak to him of Polina; nor, for his part, did he ask
me any questions concerning her, although, on my telling him of the
Grandmother's exploits, he listened attentively and gravely, and then
shrugged his shoulders.

"She is gambling away everything that she has," I remarked.

"Indeed? She arrived at the Casino even before I had taken my departure
by train, so I knew she had been playing. If I should have time I will
go to the Casino to-night, and take a look at her. The thing interests
me."

"Where have you been today?" I asked--surprised at myself for having,
as yet, omitted to put to him that question.

"To Frankfort."

"On business?"

"On business."

What more was there to be asked after that? I accompanied him until, as
we drew level with the Hotel des Quatre Saisons, he suddenly nodded to
me and disappeared. For myself, I returned home, and came to the
conclusion that, even had I met him at two o'clock in the afternoon, I
should have learnt no more from him than I had done at five o'clock,
for the reason that I had no definite question to ask. It was bound to
have been so. For me to formulate the query which I really wished to
put was a simple impossibility.

Polina spent the whole of that day either in walking about the park
with the nurse and children or in sitting in her own room. For a long
while past she had avoided the General and had scarcely had a word to
say to him (scarcely a word, I mean, on any SERIOUS topic). Yes, that I
had noticed. Still, even though I was aware of the position in which
the General was placed, it had never occurred to me that he would have
any reason to avoid HER, or to trouble her with family explanations.
Indeed, when I was returning to the hotel after my conversation with
Astley, and chanced to meet Polina and the children, I could see that
her face was as calm as though the family disturbances had never
touched her. To my salute she responded with a slight bow, and I
retired to my room in a very bad humour.

Of course, since the affair with the Burmergelms I had exchanged not a
word with Polina, nor had with her any kind of intercourse. Yet I had
been at my wits' end, for, as time went on, there was arising in me an
ever-seething dissatisfaction. Even if she did not love me she ought
not to have trampled upon my feelings, nor to have accepted my
confessions with such contempt, seeing that she must have been aware
that I loved her (of her own accord she had allowed me to tell her as
much). Of course the situation between us had arisen in a curious
manner. About two months ago, I had noticed that she had a desire to
make me her friend, her confidant--that she was making trial of me for
the purpose; but, for some reason or another, the desired result had
never come about, and we had fallen into the present strange relations,
which had led me to address her as I had done. At the same time, if my
love was distasteful to her, why had she not FORBIDDEN me to speak of
it to her?

But she had not so forbidden me. On the contrary, there had been
occasions when she had even INVITED me to speak. Of course, this might
have been done out of sheer wantonness, for I well knew--I had remarked
it only too often--that, after listening to what I had to say, and
angering me almost beyond endurance, she loved suddenly to torture me
with some fresh outburst of contempt and aloofness! Yet she must have
known that I could not live without her. Three days had elapsed since
the affair with the Baron, and I could bear the severance no longer.
When, that afternoon, I met her near the Casino, my heart almost made
me faint, it beat so violently. She too could not live without me, for
had she not said that she had NEED of me? Or had that too been spoken
in jest?

That she had a secret of some kind there could be no doubt. What she
had said to the Grandmother had stabbed me to the heart. On a thousand
occasions I had challenged her to be open with me, nor could she have
been ignorant that I was ready to give my very life for her. Yet always
she had kept me at a distance with that contemptuous air of hers; or
else she had demanded of me, in lieu of the life which I offered to lay
at her feet, such escapades as I had perpetrated with the Baron. Ah,
was it not torture to me, all this? For could it be that her whole
world was bound up with the Frenchman? What, too, about Mr. Astley? The
affair was inexplicable throughout. My God, what distress it caused me!

Arrived home, I, in a fit of frenzy, indited the following:

"Polina Alexandrovna, I can see that there is approaching us an
exposure which will involve you too. For the last time I ask of
you--have you, or have you not, any need of my life? If you have, then
make such dispositions as you wish, and I shall always be discoverable
in my room if required. If you have need of my life, write or send for
me."

I sealed the letter, and dispatched it by the hand of a corridor
lacquey, with orders to hand it to the addressee in person. Though I
expected no answer, scarcely three minutes had elapsed before the
lacquey returned with "the compliments of a certain person."

Next, about seven o'clock, I was sent for by the General. I found him
in his study, apparently preparing to go out again, for his hat and
stick were lying on the sofa. When I entered he was standing in the
middle of the room--his feet wide apart, and his head bent down. Also,
he appeared to be talking to himself. But as soon as ever he saw me at
the door he came towards me in such a curious manner that involuntarily
I retreated a step, and was for leaving the room; whereupon he seized
me by both hands, and, drawing me towards the sofa, and seating himself
thereon, he forced me to sit down on a chair opposite him. Then,
without letting go of my hands, he exclaimed with quivering lips and a
sparkle of tears on his eyelashes:

"Oh, Alexis Ivanovitch! Save me, save me! Have some mercy upon me!"

For a long time I could not make out what he meant, although he kept
talking and talking, and constantly repeating to himself, "Have mercy,
mercy!" At length, however, I divined that he was expecting me to give
him something in the nature of advice--or, rather, that, deserted by
every one, and overwhelmed with grief and apprehension, he had
bethought himself of my existence, and sent for me to relieve his
feelings by talking and talking and talking.

In fact, he was in such a confused and despondent state of mind that,
clasping his hands together, he actually went down upon his knees and
begged me to go to Mlle. Blanche, and beseech and advise her to return
to him, and to accept him in marriage.

"But, General," I exclaimed, "possibly Mlle. Blanche has scarcely even
remarked my existence? What could I do with her?"

It was in vain that I protested, for he could understand nothing that
was said to him, Next he started talking about the Grandmother, but
always in a disconnected sort of fashion--his one thought being to send
for the police.

"In Russia," said he, suddenly boiling over with indignation, "or in
any well-ordered State where there exists a government, old women like
my mother are placed under proper guardianship. Yes, my good sir," he
went on, relapsing into a scolding tone as he leapt to his feet and
started to pace the room, "do you not know this" (he seemed to be
addressing some imaginary auditor in the corner) "--do you not know
this, that in Russia old women like her are subjected to restraint, the
devil take them?" Again he threw himself down upon the sofa.

A minute later, though sobbing and almost breathless, he managed to
gasp out that Mlle. Blanche had refused to marry him, for the reason
that the Grandmother had turned up in place of a telegram, and it was
therefore clear that he had no inheritance to look for. Evidently, he
supposed that I had hitherto been in entire ignorance of all this.
Again, when I referred to De Griers, the General made a gesture of
despair. "He has gone away," he said, "and everything which I possess
is mortgaged to him. I stand stripped to my skin. Even of the money
which you brought me from Paris, I know not if seven hundred francs be
left. Of course that sum will do to go on with, but, as regards the
future, I know nothing, I know nothing."

"Then how will you pay your hotel bill?" I cried in consternation. "And
what shall you do afterwards?"

He looked at me vaguely, but it was clear that he had not
understood--perhaps had not even heard--my questions. Then I tried to
get him to speak of Polina and the children, but he only returned brief
answers of "Yes, yes," and again started to maunder about the Prince,
and the likelihood of the latter marrying Mlle. Blanche. "What on earth
am I to do?" he concluded. "What on earth am I to do? Is this not
ingratitude? Is it not sheer ingratitude?" And he burst into tears.

Nothing could be done with such a man. Yet to leave him alone was
dangerous, for something might happen to him. I withdrew from his rooms
for a little while, but warned the nursemaid to keep an eye upon him,
as well as exchanged a word with the corridor lacquey (a very talkative
fellow), who likewise promised to remain on the look-out.

Hardly had I left the General, when Potapitch approached me with a
summons from the Grandmother. It was now eight o'clock, and she had
returned from the Casino after finally losing all that she possessed. I
found her sitting in her chair--much distressed and evidently fatigued.
Presently Martha brought her up a cup of tea and forced her to drink
it; yet, even then I could detect in the old lady's tone and manner a
great change.

"Good evening, Alexis Ivanovitch," she said slowly, with her head
drooping. "Pardon me for disturbing you again. Yes, you must pardon an
old, old woman like myself, for I have left behind me all that I
possess--nearly a hundred thousand roubles! You did quite right in
declining to come with me this evening. Now I am without money--without
a single groat. But I must not delay a moment; I must leave by the 9:30
train. I have sent for that English friend of yours, and am going to
beg of him three thousand francs for a week. Please try and persuade
him to think nothing of it, nor yet to refuse me, for I am still a rich
woman who possesses three villages and a couple of mansions. Yes, the
money shall be found, for I have not yet squandered EVERYTHING. I tell
you this in order that he may have no doubts about--Ah, but here he is!
Clearly he is a good fellow."

True enough, Astley had come hot-foot on receiving the Grandmother's
appeal. Scarcely stopping even to reflect, and with scarcely a word, he
counted out the three thousand francs under a note of hand which she
duly signed. Then, his business done, he bowed, and lost no time in
taking his departure.

"You too leave me, Alexis Ivanovitch," said the Grandmother. "All my
bones are aching, and I still have an hour in which to rest. Do not be
hard upon me, old fool that I am. Never again shall I blame young
people for being frivolous. I should think it wrong even to blame that
unhappy General of yours. Nevertheless, I do not mean to let him have
any of my money (which is all that he desires), for the reason that I
look upon him as a perfect blockhead, and consider myself, simpleton
though I be, at least wiser than HE is. How surely does God visit old
age, and punish it for its presumption! Well, good-bye. Martha, come
and lift me up."

However, I had a mind to see the old lady off; and, moreover, I was in
an expectant frame of mind--somehow I kept thinking that SOMETHING was
going to happen; wherefore, I could not rest quietly in my room, but
stepped out into the corridor, and then into the Chestnut Avenue for a
few minutes' stroll. My letter to Polina had been clear and firm, and
in the present crisis, I felt sure, would prove final. I had heard of
De Griers' departure, and, however much Polina might reject me as a
FRIEND, she might not reject me altogether as a SERVANT. She would need
me to fetch and carry for her, and I was ready to do so. How could it
have been otherwise?

Towards the hour of the train's departure I hastened to the station,
and put the Grandmother into her compartment--she and her party
occupying a reserved family saloon.

"Thanks for your disinterested assistance," she said at parting. "Oh,
and please remind Prascovia of what I said to her last night. I expect
soon to see her."

Then I returned home. As I was passing the door of the General's suite,
I met the nursemaid, and inquired after her master. "There is nothing
new to report, sir," she replied quietly. Nevertheless I decided to
enter, and was just doing so when I halted thunderstruck on the
threshold. For before me I beheld the General and Mlle.
Blanche--laughing gaily at one another!--while beside them, on the
sofa, there was seated her mother. Clearly the General was almost out
of his mind with joy, for he was talking all sorts of nonsense, and
bubbling over with a long-drawn, nervous laugh--a laugh which twisted
his face into innumerable wrinkles, and caused his eyes almost to
disappear.

Afterwards I learnt from Mlle. Blanche herself that, after dismissing
the Prince and hearing of the General's tears, she bethought her of
going to comfort the old man, and had just arrived for the purpose when
I entered. Fortunately, the poor General did not know that his fate had
been decided--that Mlle. had long ago packed her trunks in readiness
for the first morning train to Paris!

Hesitating a moment on the threshold I changed my mind as to entering,
and departed unnoticed. Ascending to my own room, and opening the door,
I perceived in the semi-darkness a figure seated on a chair in the
corner by the window. The figure did not rise when I entered, so I
approached it swiftly, peered at it closely, and felt my heart almost
stop beating. The figure was Polina!



XIV

The shock made me utter an exclamation.

"What is the matter? What is the matter?" she asked in a strange voice.
She was looking pale, and her eyes were dim.

"What is the matter?" I re-echoed. "Why, the fact that you are HERE!"

"If I am here, I have come with all that I have to bring," she said.
"Such has always been my way, as you shall presently see. Please light
a candle."

I did so; whereupon she rose, approached the table, and laid upon it an
open letter.

"Read it," she added.

"It is De Griers' handwriting!" I cried as I seized the document. My
hands were so tremulous that the lines on the pages danced before my
eyes. Although, at this distance of time, I have forgotten the exact
phraseology of the missive, I append, if not the precise words, at all
events the general sense.

"Mademoiselle," the document ran, "certain untoward circumstances
compel me to depart in haste. Of course, you have of yourself remarked
that hitherto I have always refrained from having any final explanation
with you, for the reason that I could not well state the whole
circumstances; and now to my difficulties the advent of the aged
Grandmother, coupled with her subsequent proceedings, has put the final
touch. Also, the involved state of my affairs forbids me to write with
any finality concerning those hopes of ultimate bliss upon which, for a
long while past, I have permitted myself to feed. I regret the past,
but at the same time hope that in my conduct you have never been able
to detect anything that was unworthy of a gentleman and a man of
honour. Having lost, however, almost the whole of my money in debts
incurred by your stepfather, I find myself driven to the necessity of
saving the remainder; wherefore, I have instructed certain friends of
mine in St. Petersburg to arrange for the sale of all the property
which has been mortgaged to myself. At the same time, knowing that, in
addition, your frivolous stepfather has squandered money which is
exclusively yours, I have decided to absolve him from a certain moiety
of the mortgages on his property, in order that you may be in a
position to recover of him what you have lost, by suing him in legal
fashion. I trust, therefore, that, as matters now stand, this action of
mine may bring you some advantage. I trust also that this same action
leaves me in the position of having fulfilled every obligation which is
incumbent upon a man of honour and refinement. Rest assured that your
memory will for ever remain graven in my heart."

"All this is clear enough," I commented. "Surely you did not expect
aught else from him?" Somehow I was feeling annoyed.

"I expected nothing at all from him," she replied--quietly enough, to
all outward seeming, yet with a note of irritation in her tone. "Long
ago I made up my mind on the subject, for I could read his thoughts,
and knew what he was thinking. He thought that possibly I should sue
him--that one day I might become a nuisance." Here Polina halted for a
moment, and stood biting her lips. "So of set purpose I redoubled my
contemptuous treatment of him, and waited to see what he would do. If a
telegram to say that we had become legatees had arrived from, St.
Petersburg, I should have flung at him a quittance for my foolish
stepfather's debts, and then dismissed him. For a long time I have
hated him. Even in earlier days he was not a man; and now!--Oh, how
gladly I could throw those fifty thousand roubles in his face, and spit
in it, and then rub the spittle in!"

"But the document returning the fifty-thousand rouble mortgage--has the
General got it? If so, possess yourself of it, and send it to De
Griers."

"No, no; the General has not got it."

"Just as I expected! Well, what is the General going to do?" Then an
idea suddenly occurred to me. "What about the Grandmother?" I asked.

Polina looked at me with impatience and bewilderment.

"What makes you speak of HER?" was her irritable inquiry. "I cannot go
and live with her. Nor," she added hotly, "will I go down upon my knees
to ANY ONE."

"Why should you?" I cried. "Yet to think that you should have loved De
Griers! The villain, the villain! But I will kill him in a duel. Where
is he now?"

"In Frankfort, where he will be staying for the next three days."

"Well, bid me do so, and I will go to him by the first train tomorrow,"
I exclaimed with enthusiasm.

She smiled.

"If you were to do that," she said, "he would merely tell you to be so
good as first to return him the fifty thousand francs. What, then,
would be the use of having a quarrel with him? You talk sheer nonsense."

I ground my teeth.

"The question," I went on, "is how to raise the fifty thousand francs.
We cannot expect to find them lying about on the floor. Listen. What of
Mr. Astley?" Even as I spoke a new and strange idea formed itself in my
brain.

Her eyes flashed fire.

"What? YOU YOURSELF wish me to leave you for him?" she cried with a
scornful look and a proud smile. Never before had she addressed me thus.

Then her head must have turned dizzy with emotion, for suddenly she
seated herself upon the sofa, as though she were powerless any longer
to stand.

A flash of lightning seemed to strike me as I stood there. I could
scarcely believe my eyes or my ears. She DID love me, then! It WAS to
me, and not to Mr. Astley, that she had turned! Although she, an
unprotected girl, had come to me in my room--in an hotel room--and had
probably compromised herself thereby, I had not understood!

Then a second mad idea flashed into my brain.

"Polina," I said, "give me but an hour. Wait here just one hour until I
return. Yes, you MUST do so. Do you not see what I mean? Just stay here
for that time."

And I rushed from the room without so much as answering her look of
inquiry. She called something after me, but I did not return.

Sometimes it happens that the most insane thought, the most impossible
conception, will become so fixed in one's head that at length one
believes the thought or the conception to be reality. Moreover, if with
the thought or the conception there is combined a strong, a passionate,
desire, one will come to look upon the said thought or conception as
something fated, inevitable, and foreordained--something bound to
happen. Whether by this there is connoted something in the nature of a
combination of presentiments, or a great effort of will, or a
self-annulment of one's true expectations, and so on, I do not know;
but, at all events that night saw happen to me (a night which I shall
never forget) something in the nature of the miraculous. Although the
occurrence can easily be explained by arithmetic, I still believe it to
have been a miracle. Yet why did this conviction take such a hold upon
me at the time, and remain with me ever since? Previously, I had
thought of the idea, not as an occurrence which was ever likely to come
about, but as something which NEVER could come about.

The time was a quarter past eleven o'clock when I entered the Casino in
such a state of hope (though, at the same time, of agitation) as I had
never before experienced. In the gaming-rooms there were still a large
number of people, but not half as many as had been present in the
morning.

At eleven o'clock there usually remained behind only the real, the
desperate gamblers--persons for whom, at spas, there existed nothing
beyond roulette, and who went thither for that alone. These gamesters
took little note of what was going on around them, and were interested
in none of the appurtenances of the season, but played from morning
till night, and would have been ready to play through the night until
dawn had that been possible. As it was, they used to disperse
unwillingly when, at midnight, roulette came to an end. Likewise, as
soon as ever roulette was drawing to a close and the head croupier had
called "Les trois derniers coups," most of them were ready to stake on
the last three rounds all that they had in their pockets--and, for the
most part, lost it. For my own part I proceeded towards the table at
which the Grandmother had lately sat; and, since the crowd around it
was not very large, I soon obtained standing room among the ring of
gamblers, while directly in front of me, on the green cloth, I saw
marked the word "Passe."

"Passe" was a row of numbers from 19 to 36 inclusive; while a row of
numbers from 1 to 18 inclusive was known as "Manque." But what had that
to do with me? I had not noticed--I had not so much as heard the
numbers upon which the previous coup had fallen, and so took no
bearings when I began to play, as, in my place, any SYSTEMATIC gambler
would have done. No, I merely extended my stock of twenty ten-gulden
pieces, and threw them down upon the space "Passe" which happened to be
confronting me.

"Vingt-deux!" called the croupier.

I had won! I staked upon the same again--both my original stake and my
winnings.

"Trente-et-un!" called the croupier.

Again I had won, and was now in possession of eighty ten-gulden pieces.
Next, I moved the whole eighty on to twelve middle numbers (a stake
which, if successful, would bring me in a triple profit, but also
involved a risk of two chances to one). The wheel revolved, and stopped
at twenty-four. Upon this I was paid out notes and gold until I had by
my side a total sum of two thousand gulden.

It was as in a fever that I moved the pile, en bloc, on to the red.
Then suddenly I came to myself (though that was the only time during
the evening's play when fear cast its cold spell over me, and showed
itself in a trembling of the hands and knees). For with horror I had
realised that I MUST win, and that upon that stake there depended all
my life.

"Rouge!" called the croupier. I drew a long breath, and hot shivers
went coursing over my body. I was paid out my winnings in
bank-notes--amounting, of course, to a total of four thousand florins,
eight hundred gulden (I could still calculate the amounts).

After that, I remember, I again staked two thousand florins upon twelve
middle numbers, and lost. Again I staked the whole of my gold, with
eight hundred gulden, in notes, and lost. Then madness seemed to come
upon me, and seizing my last two thousand florins, I staked them upon
twelve of the first numbers--wholly by chance, and at random, and
without any sort of reckoning. Upon my doing so there followed a moment
of suspense only comparable to that which Madame Blanchard must have
experienced when, in Paris, she was descending earthwards from a
balloon.

"Quatre!" called the croupier.

Once more, with the addition of my original stake, I was in possession
of six thousand florins! Once more I looked around me like a
conqueror--once more I feared nothing as I threw down four thousand of
these florins upon the black. The croupiers glanced around them, and
exchanged a few words; the bystanders murmured expectantly.

The black turned up. After that I do not exactly remember either my
calculations or the order of my stakings. I only remember that, as in a
dream, I won in one round sixteen thousand florins; that in the three
following rounds, I lost twelve thousand; that I moved the remainder
(four thousand) on to "Passe" (though quite unconscious of what I was
doing--I was merely waiting, as it were, mechanically, and without
reflection, for something) and won; and that, finally, four times in
succession I lost. Yes, I can remember raking in money by
thousands--but most frequently on the twelve, middle numbers, to which
I constantly adhered, and which kept appearing in a sort of regular
order--first, three or four times running, and then, after an interval
of a couple of rounds, in another break of three or four appearances.
Sometimes, this astonishing regularity manifested itself in patches; a
thing to upset all the calculations of note--taking gamblers who play
with a pencil and a memorandum book in their hands Fortune perpetrates
some terrible jests at roulette!

Since my entry not more than half an hour could have elapsed. Suddenly
a croupier informed me that I had, won thirty thousand florins, as well
as that, since the latter was the limit for which, at any one time, the
bank could make itself responsible, roulette at that table must close
for the night. Accordingly, I caught up my pile of gold, stuffed it
into my pocket, and, grasping my sheaf of bank-notes, moved to the
table in an adjoining salon where a second game of roulette was in
progress. The crowd followed me in a body, and cleared a place for me
at the table; after which, I proceeded to stake as before--that is to
say, at random and without calculating. What saved me from ruin I do
not know.

Of course there were times when fragmentary reckonings DID come
flashing into my brain. For instance, there were times when I attached
myself for a while to certain figures and coups--though always leaving
them, again before long, without knowing what I was doing.

In fact, I cannot have been in possession of all my faculties, for I
can remember the croupiers correcting my play more than once, owing to
my having made mistakes of the gravest order. My brows were damp with
sweat, and my hands were shaking. Also, Poles came around me to proffer
their services, but I heeded none of them. Nor did my luck fail me now.
Suddenly, there arose around me a loud din of talking and laughter.
"Bravo, bravo!" was the general shout, and some people even clapped
their hands. I had raked in thirty thousand florins, and again the bank
had had to close for the night!

"Go away now, go away now," a voice whispered to me on my right. The
person who had spoken to me was a certain Jew of Frankfurt--a man who
had been standing beside me the whole while, and occasionally helping
me in my play.

"Yes, for God's sake go," whispered a second voice in my left ear.
Glancing around, I perceived that the second voice had come from a
modestly, plainly dressed lady of rather less than thirty--a woman
whose face, though pale and sickly-looking, bore also very evident
traces of former beauty. At the moment, I was stuffing the crumpled
bank-notes into my pockets and collecting all the gold that was left on
the table. Seizing up my last note for five hundred gulden, I contrived
to insinuate it, unperceived, into the hand of the pale lady. An
overpowering impulse had made me do so, and I remember how her thin
little fingers pressed mine in token of her lively gratitude. The whole
affair was the work of a moment.

Then, collecting my belongings, I crossed to where trente et quarante
was being played--a game which could boast of a more aristocratic
public, and was played with cards instead of with a wheel. At this
diversion the bank made itself responsible for a hundred thousand
thalers as the limit, but the highest stake allowable was, as in
roulette, four thousand florins. Although I knew nothing of the
game--and I scarcely knew the stakes, except those on black and red--I
joined the ring of players, while the rest of the crowd massed itself
around me. At this distance of time I cannot remember whether I ever
gave a thought to Polina; I seemed only to be conscious of a vague
pleasure in seizing and raking in the bank-notes which kept massing
themselves in a pile before me.

But, as ever, fortune seemed to be at my back. As though of set
purpose, there came to my aid a circumstance which not infrequently
repeats itself in gaming. The circumstance is that not infrequently
luck attaches itself to, say, the red, and does not leave it for a
space of say, ten, or even fifteen, rounds in succession. Three days
ago I had heard that, during the previous week there had been a run of
twenty-two coups on the red--an occurrence never before known at
roulette--so that men spoke of it with astonishment. Naturally enough,
many deserted the red after a dozen rounds, and practically no one
could now be found to stake upon it. Yet upon the black also--the
antithesis of the red--no experienced gambler would stake anything, for
the reason that every practised player knows the meaning of "capricious
fortune." That is to say, after the sixteenth (or so) success of the
red, one would think that the seventeenth coup would inevitably fall
upon the black; wherefore, novices would be apt to back the latter in
the seventeenth round, and even to double or treble their stakes upon
it--only, in the end, to lose.

Yet some whim or other led me, on remarking that the red had come up
consecutively for seven times, to attach myself to that colour.
Probably this was mostly due to self-conceit, for I wanted to astonish
the bystanders with the riskiness of my play. Also, I remember
that--oh, strange sensation!--I suddenly, and without any challenge
from my own presumption, became obsessed with a DESIRE to take risks.
If the spirit has passed through a great many sensations, possibly it
can no longer be sated with them, but grows more excited, and demands
more sensations, and stronger and stronger ones, until at length it
falls exhausted. Certainly, if the rules of the game had permitted even
of my staking fifty thousand florins at a time, I should have staked
them. All of a sudden I heard exclamations arising that the whole thing
was a marvel, since the red was turning up for the fourteenth time!

"Monsieur a gagne cent mille florins," a voice exclaimed beside me.

I awoke to my senses. What? I had won a hundred thousand florins? If
so, what more did I need to win? I grasped the banknotes, stuffed them
into my pockets, raked in the gold without counting it, and started to
leave the Casino. As I passed through the salons people smiled to see
my bulging pockets and unsteady gait, for the weight which I was
carrying must have amounted to half a pood! Several hands I saw
stretched out in my direction, and as I passed I filled them with all
the money that I could grasp in my own. At length two Jews stopped me
near the exit.

"You are a bold young fellow," one said, "but mind you depart early
tomorrow--as early as you can--for if you do not you will lose
everything that you have won."

But I did not heed them. The Avenue was so dark that it was barely
possible to distinguish one's hand before one's face, while the
distance to the hotel was half a verst or so; but I feared neither
pickpockets nor highwaymen. Indeed, never since my boyhood have I done
that. Also, I cannot remember what I thought about on the way. I only
felt a sort of fearful pleasure--the pleasure of success, of conquest,
of power (how can I best express it?). Likewise, before me there
flitted the image of Polina; and I kept remembering, and reminding
myself, that it was to HER I was going, that it was in HER presence I
should soon be standing, that it was SHE to whom I should soon be able
to relate and show everything. Scarcely once did I recall what she had
lately said to me, or the reason why I had left her, or all those
varied sensations which I had been experiencing a bare hour and a half
ago. No, those sensations seemed to be things of the past, to be things
which had righted themselves and grown old, to be things concerning
which we needed to trouble ourselves no longer, since, for us, life was
about to begin anew. Yet I had just reached the end of the Avenue when
there DID come upon me a fear of being robbed or murdered. With each
step the fear increased until, in my terror, I almost started to run.
Suddenly, as I issued from the Avenue, there burst upon me the lights
of the hotel, sparkling with a myriad lamps! Yes, thanks be to God, I
had reached home!

Running up to my room, I flung open the door of it.  Polina was still
on the sofa, with a lighted candle in front of her, and her hands
clasped. As I entered she stared at me in astonishment (for, at the
moment, I must have presented a strange spectacle). All I did, however,
was to halt before her, and fling upon the table my burden of wealth.



XV

I remember, too, how, without moving from her place, or changing her
attitude, she gazed into my face.

"I have won two hundred thousand francs!" cried I as I pulled out my
last sheaf of bank-notes. The pile of paper currency occupied the whole
table. I could not withdraw my eyes from it. Consequently, for a moment
or two Polina escaped my mind. Then I set myself to arrange the pile in
order, and to sort the notes, and to mass the gold in a separate heap.
That done, I left everything where it lay, and proceeded to pace the
room with rapid strides as I lost myself in thought. Then I darted to
the table once more, and began to recount the money; until all of a
sudden, as though I had remembered something, I rushed to the door, and
closed and double-locked it. Finally I came to a meditative halt before
my little trunk.

"Shall I put the money there until tomorrow?" I asked, turning sharply
round to Polina as the recollection of her returned to me.

She was still in her old place--still making not a sound. Yet her eyes
had followed every one of my movements. Somehow in her face there was a
strange expression--an expression which I did not like. I think that I
shall not be wrong if I say that it indicated sheer hatred.

Impulsively I approached her.

"Polina," I said, "here are twenty-five thousand florins--fifty
thousand francs, or more. Take them, and tomorrow throw them in De
Griers' face."

She returned no answer.

"Or, if you should prefer," I continued, "let me take them to him
myself tomorrow--yes, early tomorrow morning. Shall I?"

Then all at once she burst out laughing, and laughed for a long while.
With astonishment and a feeling of offence I gazed at her. Her laughter
was too like the derisive merriment which she had so often indulged in
of late--merriment which had broken forth always at the time of my most
passionate explanations. At length she ceased, and frowned at me from
under her eyebrows.

"I am NOT going to take your money," she said contemptuously.

"Why not?" I cried. "Why not, Polina?"

"Because I am not in the habit of receiving money for nothing."

"But I am offering it to you as a FRIEND in the same way I would offer
you my very life."

Upon this she threw me a long, questioning glance, as though she were
seeking to probe me to the depths.

"You are giving too much for me," she remarked with a smile. "The
beloved of De Griers is not worth fifty thousand francs."

"Oh Polina, how can you speak so?" I exclaimed reproachfully. "Am I De
Griers?"

"You?" she cried with her eyes suddenly flashing. "Why, I HATE you!
Yes, yes, I HATE you! I love you no more than I do De Griers."

Then she buried her face in her hands, and relapsed into hysterics. I
darted to her side. Somehow I had an intuition of something having
happened to her which had nothing to do with myself. She was like a
person temporarily insane.

"Buy me, would you, would you? Would you buy me for fifty thousand
francs as De Griers did?" she gasped between her convulsive sobs.

I clasped her in my arms, kissed her hands and feet, and fell upon my
knees before her.

Presently the hysterical fit passed away, and, laying her hands upon my
shoulders, she gazed for a while into my face, as though trying to read
it--something I said to her, but it was clear that she did not hear it.
Her face looked so dark and despondent that I began to fear for her
reason. At length she drew me towards herself--a trustful smile playing
over her features; and then, as suddenly, she pushed me away again as
she eyed me dimly.

Finally she threw herself upon me in an embrace.

"You love me?" she said. "DO you?--you who were willing even to quarrel
with the Baron at my bidding?"

Then she laughed--laughed as though something dear, but laughable, had
recurred to her memory. Yes, she laughed and wept at the same time.
What was I to do? I was like a man in a fever. I remember that she
began to say something to me--though WHAT I do not know, since she
spoke with a feverish lisp, as though she were trying to tell me
something very quickly. At intervals, too, she would break off into the
smile which I was beginning to dread. "No, no!" she kept repeating.
"YOU are my dear one; YOU are the man I trust." Again she laid her
hands upon my shoulders, and again she gazed at me as she reiterated:
"You love me, you love me? Will you ALWAYS love me?" I could not take
my eyes off her. Never before had I seen her in this mood of humility
and affection. True, the mood was the outcome of hysteria; but--! All
of a sudden she noticed my ardent gaze, and smiled slightly. The next
moment, for no apparent reason, she began to talk of Astley.

She continued talking and talking about him, but I could not make out
all she said--more particularly when she was endeavouring to tell me of
something or other which had happened recently. On the whole, she
appeared to be laughing at Astley, for she kept repeating that he was
waiting for her, and did I know whether, even at that moment, he was
not standing beneath the window? "Yes, yes, he is there," she said.
"Open the window, and see if he is not." She pushed me in that
direction; yet, no sooner did I make a movement to obey her behest than
she burst into laughter, and I remained beside her, and she embraced me.

"Shall we go away tomorrow?" presently she asked, as though some
disturbing thought had recurred to her recollection. "How would it be
if we were to try and overtake Grandmamma? I think we should do so at
Berlin. And what think you she would have to say to us when we caught
her up, and her eyes first lit upon us? What, too, about Mr. Astley? HE
would not leap from the Shlangenberg for my sake! No! Of that I am very
sure!"--and she laughed. "Do you know where he is going next year? He
says he intends to go to the North Pole for scientific investigations,
and has invited me to go with him! Ha, ha, ha! He also says that we
Russians know nothing, can do nothing, without European help. But he is
a good fellow all the same. For instance, he does not blame the General
in the matter, but declares that Mlle. Blanche--that love--But no; I do
not know, I do not know." She stopped suddenly, as though she had said
her say, and was feeling bewildered. "What poor creatures these people
are. How sorry I am for them, and for Grandmamma! But when are you
going to kill De Griers? Surely you do not intend actually to murder
him? You fool! Do you suppose that I should ALLOW you to fight De
Griers? Nor shall you kill the Baron." Here she burst out laughing.
"How absurd you looked when you were talking to the Burmergelms! I was
watching you all the time--watching you from where I was sitting. And
how unwilling you were to go when I sent you! Oh, how I laughed and
laughed!"

Then she kissed and embraced me again; again she pressed her face to
mine with tender passion. Yet I neither saw nor heard her, for my head
was in a whirl....

It must have been about seven o'clock in the morning when I awoke.
Daylight had come, and Polina was sitting by my side--a strange
expression on her face, as though she had seen a vision and was unable
to collect her thoughts. She too had just awoken, and was now staring
at the money on the table. My head ached; it felt heavy. I attempted to
take Polina's hand, but she pushed me from her, and leapt from the
sofa. The dawn was full of mist, for rain had fallen, yet she moved to
the window, opened it, and, leaning her elbows upon the window-sill,
thrust out her head and shoulders to take the air. In this position did
she remain for several minutes, without ever looking round at me, or
listening to what I was saying. Into my head there came the uneasy
thought: What is to happen now? How is it all to end? Suddenly Polina
rose from the window, approached the table, and, looking at me with an
expression of infinite aversion, said with lips which quivered with
anger:

"Well? Are you going to hand me over my fifty thousand francs?"

"Polina, you say that AGAIN, AGAIN?" I exclaimed.

"You have changed your mind, then? Ha, ha, ha! You are sorry you ever
promised them?"

On the table where, the previous night, I had counted the money there
still was lying the packet of twenty five thousand florins. I handed it
to her.

"The francs are mine, then, are they? They are mine?" she inquired
viciously as she balanced the money in her hands.

"Yes; they have ALWAYS been yours," I said.

"Then TAKE your fifty thousand francs!" and she hurled them full in my
face. The packet burst as she did so, and the floor became strewed with
bank-notes. The instant that the deed was done she rushed from the room.

At that moment she cannot have been in her right mind; yet, what was
the cause of her temporary aberration I cannot say. For a month past
she had been unwell. Yet what had brought about this PRESENT condition
of mind, above all things, this outburst? Had it come of wounded pride?
Had it come of despair over her decision to come to me? Had it come of
the fact that, presuming too much on my good fortune, I had seemed to
be intending to desert her (even as De Griers had done) when once I had
given her the fifty thousand francs? But, on my honour, I had never
cherished any such intention. What was at fault, I think, was her own
pride, which kept urging her not to trust me, but, rather, to insult
me--even though she had not realised the fact. In her eyes I
corresponded to De Griers, and therefore had been condemned for a fault
not wholly my own. Her mood of late had been a sort of delirium, a sort
of light-headedness--that I knew full well; yet, never had I
sufficiently taken it into consideration. Perhaps she would not pardon
me now? Ah, but this was THE PRESENT. What about the future? Her
delirium and sickness were not likely to make her forget what she had
done in bringing me De Griers' letter. No, she must have known what she
was doing when she brought it.

Somehow I contrived to stuff the pile of notes and gold under the bed,
to cover them over, and then to leave the room some ten minutes after
Polina. I felt sure that she had returned to her own room; wherefore, I
intended quietly to follow her, and to ask the nursemaid aid who opened
the door how her mistress was. Judge, therefore, of my surprise when,
meeting the domestic on the stairs, she informed me that Polina had not
yet returned, and that she (the domestic) was at that moment on her way
to my room in quest of her!

"Mlle. left me but ten minutes ago," I said. "What can have become of
her?" The nursemaid looked at me reproachfully.

Already sundry rumours were flying about the hotel. Both in the office
of the commissionaire and in that of the landlord it was whispered
that, at seven o'clock that morning, the Fraulein had left the hotel,
and set off, despite the rain, in the direction of the Hotel
d'Angleterre. From words and hints let fall I could see that the fact
of Polina having spent the night in my room was now public property.
Also, sundry rumours were circulating concerning the General's family
affairs. It was known that last night he had gone out of his mind, and
paraded the hotel in tears; also, that the old lady who had arrived was
his mother, and that she had come from Russia on purpose to forbid her
son's marriage with Mlle. de Cominges, as well as to cut him out of her
will if he should disobey her; also that, because he had disobeyed her,
she had squandered all her money at roulette, in order to have nothing
more to leave to him. "Oh, these Russians!" exclaimed the landlord,
with an angry toss of the head, while the bystanders laughed and the
clerk betook himself to his accounts. Also, every one had learnt about
my winnings; Karl, the corridor lacquey, was the first to congratulate
me. But with these folk I had nothing to do. My business was to set off
at full speed to the Hotel d'Angleterre.

As yet it was early for Mr. Astley to receive visitors; but, as soon as
he learnt that it was I who had arrived, he came out into the corridor
to meet me, and stood looking at me in silence with his steel-grey eyes
as he waited to hear what I had to say. I inquired after Polina.

"She is ill," he replied, still looking at me with his direct,
unwavering glance.

"And she is in your rooms."

"Yes, she is in my rooms."

"Then you are minded to keep her there?"

"Yes, I am minded to keep her there."

"But, Mr. Astley, that will raise a scandal. It ought not to be
allowed. Besides, she is very ill. Perhaps you had not remarked that?"

"Yes, I have. It was I who told you about it. Had she not been ill, she
would not have gone and spent the night with you."

"Then you know all about it?"

"Yes; for last night she was to have accompanied me to the house of a
relative of mine. Unfortunately, being ill, she made a mistake, and
went to your rooms instead."

"Indeed? Then I wish you joy, Mr. Astley. Apropos, you have reminded me
of something. Were you beneath my window last night? Every moment Mlle.
Polina kept telling me to open the window and see if you were there;
after which she always smiled."

"Indeed? No, I was not there; but I was waiting in the corridor, and
walking about the hotel."

"She ought to see a doctor, you know, Mr. Astley."

"Yes, she ought. I have sent for one, and, if she dies, I shall hold
you responsible."

This surprised me.

"Pardon me," I replied, "but what do you mean?"

"Never mind. Tell me if it is true that, last night, you won two
hundred thousand thalers?"

"No; I won a hundred thousand florins."

"Good heavens! Then I suppose you will be off to Paris this morning?

"Why?"

"Because all Russians who have grown rich go to Paris," explained
Astley, as though he had read the fact in a book.

"But what could I do in Paris in summer time?--I LOVE her, Mr. Astley!
Surely you know that?"

"Indeed? I am sure that you do NOT. Moreover, if you were to stay here,
you would lose everything that you possess, and have nothing left with
which to pay your expenses in Paris. Well, good-bye now. I feel sure
that today will see you gone from here."

"Good-bye. But I am NOT going to Paris. Likewise--pardon me--what is to
become of this family? I mean that the affair of the General and Mlle.
Polina will soon be all over the town."

"I daresay; yet, I hardly suppose that that will break the General's
heart. Moreover, Mlle. Polina has a perfect right to live where she
chooses. In short, we may say that, as a family, this family has ceased
to exist."

I departed, and found myself smiling at the Englishman's strange
assurance that I should soon be leaving for Paris. "I suppose he means
to shoot me in a duel, should Polina die. Yes, that is what he intends
to do."  Now, although I was honestly sorry for Polina, it is a fact
that, from the moment when, the previous night, I had approached the
gaming-table, and begun to rake in the packets of bank-notes, my love
for her had entered upon a new plane. Yes, I can say that now;
although, at the time, I was barely conscious of it. Was I, then, at
heart a gambler? Did I, after all, love Polina not so very much? No,
no! As God is my witness, I loved her! Even when I was returning home
from Mr. Astley's my suffering was genuine, and my self-reproach
sincere. But presently I was to go through an exceedingly strange and
ugly experience.

I was proceeding to the General's rooms when I heard a door near me
open, and a voice call me by name. It was Mlle.'s mother, the Widow de
Cominges who was inviting me, in her daughter's name, to enter.

I did so; whereupon, I heard a laugh and a little cry proceed from the
bedroom (the pair occupied a suite of two apartments), where Mlle.
Blanche was just arising.

"Ah, c'est lui! Viens, donc, bete! Is it true that you have won a
mountain of gold and silver? J'aimerais mieux l'or."

"Yes," I replied with a smile.

"How much?"

"A hundred thousand florins."

"Bibi, comme tu es bete! Come in here, for I can't hear you where you
are now. Nous ferons bombance, n'est-ce pas?"

Entering her room, I found her lolling under a pink satin coverlet, and
revealing a pair of swarthy, wonderfully healthy shoulders--shoulders
such as one sees in dreams--shoulders covered over with a white cambric
nightgown which, trimmed with lace, stood out, in striking relief,
against the darkness of her skin.

"Mon fils, as-tu du coeur?" she cried when she saw me, and then
giggled. Her laugh had always been a very cheerful one, and at times it
even sounded sincere.

"Tout autre--" I began, paraphrasing Corneille.

"See here," she prattled on. "Please search for my stockings, and help
me to dress. Aussi, si tu n'es pas trop bete je te prends a Paris. I am
just off, let me tell you."

"This moment?"

"In half an hour."

True enough, everything stood ready-packed--trunks, portmanteaux, and
all. Coffee had long been served.

"Eh bien, tu verras Paris. Dis donc, qu'est-ce que c'est qu'un
'utchitel'? Tu etais bien bete quand tu etais 'utchitel.' Where are my
stockings? Please help me to dress."

And she lifted up a really ravishing foot--small, swarthy, and not
misshapen like the majority of feet which look dainty only in bottines.
I laughed, and started to draw on to the foot a silk stocking, while
Mlle. Blanche sat on the edge of the bed and chattered.

"Eh bien, que feras-tu si je te prends avec moi? First of all I must
have fifty thousand francs, and you shall give them to me at Frankfurt.
Then we will go on to Paris, where we will live together, et je te
ferai voir des etoiles en plein jour. Yes, you shall see such women as
your eyes have never lit upon."

"Stop a moment. If I were to give you those fifty thousand francs, what
should I have left for myself?"

"Another hundred thousand francs, please to remember. Besides, I could
live with you in your rooms for a month, or even for two; or even for
longer. But it would not take us more than two months to get through
fifty thousand francs; for, look you, je suis bonne enfante, et tu
verras des etoiles, you may be sure."

"What? You mean to say that we should spend the whole in two months?"

"Certainly. Does that surprise you very much? Ah, vil esclave! Why, one
month of that life would be better than all your previous existence.
One month--et apres, le deluge! Mais tu ne peux comprendre. Va! Away,
away! You are not worth it.--Ah, que fais-tu?"

For, while drawing on the other stocking, I had felt constrained to
kiss her. Immediately she shrunk back, kicked me in the face with her
toes, and turned me neck and prop out of the room.

"Eh bien, mon 'utchitel'," she called after me, "je t'attends, si tu
veux. I start in a quarter of an hour's time."

I returned to my own room with my head in a whirl. It was not my fault
that Polina had thrown a packet in my face, and preferred Mr. Astley to
myself. A few bank-notes were still fluttering about the floor, and I
picked them up. At that moment the door opened, and the landlord
appeared--a person who, until now, had never bestowed upon me so much
as a glance. He had come to know if I would prefer to move to a lower
floor--to a suite which had just been tenanted by Count V.

For a moment I reflected.

"No!" I shouted. "My account, please, for in ten minutes I shall be
gone."

"To Paris, to Paris!" I added to myself. "Every man of birth must make
her acquaintance."

Within a quarter of an hour all three of us were seated in a family
compartment--Mlle. Blanche, the Widow de Cominges, and myself. Mlle.
kept laughing hysterically as she looked at me, and Madame re-echoed
her; but I did not feel so cheerful. My life had broken in two, and
yesterday had infected me with a habit of staking my all upon a card.
Although it might be that I had failed to win my stake, that I had lost
my senses, that I desired nothing better, I felt that the scene was to
be changed only FOR A TIME. "Within a month from now," I kept thinking
to myself, "I shall be back again in Roulettenberg; and THEN I mean to
have it out with you, Mr. Astley!" Yes, as now I look back at things, I
remember that I felt greatly depressed, despite the absurd gigglings of
the egregious Blanche.

"What is the matter with you? How dull you are!" she cried at length as
she interrupted her laughter to take me seriously to task.

"Come, come! We are going to spend your two hundred thousand francs for
you, et tu seras heureux comme un petit roi. I myself will tie your tie
for you, and introduce you to Hortense. And when we have spent your
money you shall return here, and break the bank again. What did those
two Jews tell you?--that the thing most needed is daring, and that you
possess it? Consequently, this is not the first time that you will be
hurrying to Paris with money in your pocket. Quant ... moi, je veux
cinquante mille francs de rente, et alors."

"But what about the General?" I interrupted.

"The General? You know well enough that at about this hour every day he
goes to buy me a bouquet. On this occasion, I took care to tell him
that he must hunt for the choicest of flowers; and when he returns
home, the poor fellow will find the bird flown. Possibly he may take
wing in pursuit--ha, ha, ha! And if so, I shall not be sorry, for he
could be useful to me in Paris, and Mr. Astley will pay his debts here."

In this manner did I depart for the Gay City.



XVI

Of Paris what am I to say? The whole proceeding was a delirium, a
madness. I spent a little over three weeks there, and, during that
time, saw my hundred thousand francs come to an end. I speak only of
the ONE hundred thousand francs, for the other hundred thousand I gave
to Mlle. Blanche in pure cash. That is to say, I handed her fifty
thousand francs at Frankfurt, and, three days later (in Paris),
advanced her another fifty thousand on note of hand. Nevertheless, a
week had not elapsed ere she came to me for more money. "Et les cent
mille francs qui nous restent," she added, "tu les mangeras avec moi,
mon utchitel." Yes, she always called me her "utchitel." A person more
economical, grasping, and mean than Mlle. Blanche one could not
imagine. But this was only as regards HER OWN money. MY hundred
thousand francs (as she explained to me later) she needed to set up her
establishment in Paris, "so that once and for all I may be on a decent
footing, and proof against any stones which may be thrown at me--at all
events for a long time to come." Nevertheless, I saw nothing of those
hundred thousand francs, for my own purse (which she inspected daily)
never managed to amass in it more than a hundred francs at a time; and,
generally the sum did not reach even that figure.

"What do you want with money?" she would say to me with air of absolute
simplicity; and I never disputed the point. Nevertheless, though she
fitted out her flat very badly with the money, the fact did not prevent
her from saying when, later, she was showing me over the rooms of her
new abode:  "See what care and taste can do with the most wretched of
means!" However, her "wretchedness" had cost fifty thousand francs,
while with the remaining fifty thousand she purchased a carriage and
horses.

Also, we gave a couple of balls--evening parties attended by Hortense
and Lisette and Cleopatre, who were women remarkable both for the
number of their liaisons and (though only in some cases) for their good
looks. At these reunions I had to play the part of host--to meet and
entertain fat mercantile parvenus who were impossible by reason of
their rudeness and braggadocio, colonels of various kinds, hungry
authors, and journalistic hacks--all of whom disported themselves in
fashionable tailcoats and pale yellow gloves, and displayed such an
aggregate of conceit and gasconade as would be unthinkable even in St.
Petersburg--which is saying a great deal! They used to try to make fun
of me, but I would console myself by drinking champagne and then
lolling in a retiring-room. Nevertheless, I found it deadly work.
"C'est un utchitel," Blanche would say of me, "qui a gagne deux cent
mille francs, and but for me, would have had not a notion how to spend
them. Presently he will have to return to his tutoring. Does any one
know of a vacant post? You know, one must do something for him."

I had the more frequent recourse to champagne in that I constantly felt
depressed and bored, owing to the fact that I was living in the most
bourgeois commercial milieu imaginable--a milieu wherein every sou was
counted and grudged. Indeed, two weeks had not elapsed before I
perceived that Blanche had no real affection for me, even though she
dressed me in elegant clothes, and herself tied my tie each day. In
short, she utterly despised me. But that caused me no concern. Blase
and inert, I spent my evenings generally at the Chateau des Fleurs,
where I would get fuddled and then dance the cancan (which, in that
establishment, was a very indecent performance) with eclat. At length,
the time came when Blanche had drained my purse dry. She had conceived
an idea that, during the term of our residence together, it would be
well if I were always to walk behind her with a paper and pencil, in
order to jot down exactly what she spent, what she had saved, what she
was paying out, and what she was laying by. Well, of course I could not
fail to be aware that this would entail a battle over every ten francs;
so, although for every possible objection that I might make she had
prepared a suitable answer, she soon saw that I made no objections, and
therefore, had to start disputes herself. That is to say, she would
burst out into tirades which were met only with silence as I lolled on
a sofa and stared fixedly at the ceiling. This greatly surprised her.
At first she imagined that it was due merely to the fact that I was a
fool, "un utchitel"; wherefore she would break off her harangue in the
belief that, being too stupid to understand, I was a hopeless case.
Then she would leave the room, but return ten minutes later to resume
the contest. This continued throughout her squandering of my money--a
squandering altogether out of proportion to our means. An example is
the way in which she changed her first pair of horses for a pair which
cost sixteen thousand francs.

"Bibi," she said on the latter occasion as she approached me, "surely
you are not angry?"

"No-o-o: I am merely tired," was my reply as I pushed her from me. This
seemed to her so curious that straightway she seated herself by my side.

"You see," she went on, "I decided to spend so much upon these horses
only because I can easily sell them again. They would go at any time
for TWENTY thousand francs."

"Yes, yes. They are splendid horses, and you have got a splendid
turn-out. I am quite content. Let me hear no more of the matter."

"Then you are not angry?"

"No. Why should I be? You are wise to provide yourself with what you
need, for it will all come in handy in the future. Yes, I quite see the
necessity of your establishing yourself on a good basis, for without it
you will never earn your million. My hundred thousand francs I look
upon merely as a beginning--as a mere drop in the bucket."

Blanche, who had by no means expected such declarations from me, but,
rather, an uproar and protests, was rather taken aback.

"Well, well, what a man you are!" she exclaimed. "Mais tu as l'esprit
pour comprendre. Sais-tu, mon garcon, although you are a tutor, you
ought to have been born a prince. Are you not sorry that your money
should be going so quickly?"

"No. The quicker it goes the better."

"Mais--sais-tu-mais dis donc, are you really rich? Mais sais-tu, you
have too much contempt for money. Qu'est-ce que tu feras apres, dis
donc?"

"Apres I shall go to Homburg, and win another hundred thousand francs."

"Oui, oui, c'est ca, c'est magnifique! Ah, I know you will win them,
and bring them to me when you have done so. Dis donc--you will end by
making me love you. Since you are what you are, I mean to love you all
the time, and never to be unfaithful to you. You see, I have not loved
you before parce que je croyais que tu n'es qu'un utchitel (quelque
chose comme un lacquais, n'est-ce pas?) Yet all the time I have been
true to you, parce que je suis bonne fille."

"You lie!" I interrupted. "Did I not see you, the other day, with
Albert--with that black-jowled officer?"

"Oh, oh! Mais tu es--"

"Yes, you are lying right enough. But what makes you suppose that I
should be angry? Rubbish! Il faut que jeunesse se passe. Even if that
officer were here now, I should refrain from putting him out of the
room if I thought you really cared for him. Only, mind you, do not give
him any of my money. You hear?"

"You say, do you, that you would not be angry? Mais tu es un vrai
philosophe, sais-tu? Oui, un vrai philosophe! Eh bien, je t'aimerai, je
t'aimerai. Tu verras-tu seras content."

True enough, from that time onward she seemed to attach herself only to
me, and in this manner we spent our last ten days together. The
promised "etoiles" I did not see, but in other respects she, to a
certain extent, kept her word. Moreover, she introduced me to Hortense,
who was a remarkable woman in her way, and known among us as Therese
Philosophe.

But I need not enlarge further, for to do so would require a story to
itself, and entail a colouring which I am loth to impart to the present
narrative. The point is that with all my faculties I desired the
episode to come to an end as speedily as possible. Unfortunately, our
hundred thousand francs lasted us, as I have said, for very nearly a
month--which greatly surprised me. At all events, Blanche bought
herself articles to the tune of eighty thousand francs, and the rest
sufficed just to meet our expenses of living. Towards the close of the
affair, Blanche grew almost frank with me (at least, she scarcely lied
to me at all)--declaring, amongst other things, that none of the debts
which she had been obliged to incur were going to fall upon my head. "I
have purposely refrained from making you responsible for my bills or
borrowings," she said, "for the reason that I am sorry for you. Any
other woman in my place would have done so, and have let you go to
prison. See, then, how much I love you, and how good-hearted I am!
Think, too, what this accursed marriage with the General is going to
cost me!"

True enough, the marriage took place. It did so at the close of our
month together, and I am bound to suppose that it was upon the ceremony
that the last remnants of my money were spent. With it the
episode--that is to say, my sojourn with the Frenchwoman--came to an
end, and I formally retired from the scene.

It happened thus: A week after we had taken up our abode in Paris there
arrived thither the General. He came straight to see us, and
thenceforward lived with us practically as our guest, though he had a
flat of his own as well. Blanche met him with merry badinage and
laughter, and even threw her arms around him. In fact, she managed it
so that he had to follow everywhere in her train--whether when
promenading on the Boulevards, or when driving, or when going to the
theatre, or when paying calls; and this use which she made of him quite
satisfied the General. Still of imposing appearance and presence, as
well as of fair height, he had a dyed moustache and whiskers (he had
formerly been in the cuirassiers), and a handsome, though a somewhat
wrinkled, face. Also, his manners were excellent, and he could carry a
frockcoat well--the more so since, in Paris, he took to wearing his
orders. To promenade the Boulevards with such a man was not only a
thing possible, but also, so to speak, a thing advisable, and with this
programme the good but foolish General had not a fault to find. The
truth is that he had never counted upon this programme when he came to
Paris to seek us out. On that occasion he had made his appearance
nearly shaking with terror, for he had supposed that Blanche would at
once raise an outcry, and have him put from the door; wherefore, he was
the more enraptured at the turn that things had taken, and spent the
month in a state of senseless ecstasy. Already I had learnt that, after
our unexpected departure from Roulettenberg, he had had a sort of a
fit--that he had fallen into a swoon, and spent a week in a species of
garrulous delirium. Doctors had been summoned to him, but he had broken
away from them, and suddenly taken a train to Paris. Of course
Blanche's reception of him had acted as the best of all possible cures,
but for long enough he carried the marks of his affliction, despite his
present condition of rapture and delight. To think clearly, or even to
engage in any serious conversation, had now become impossible for him;
he could only ejaculate after each word "Hm!" and then nod his head in
confirmation. Sometimes, also, he would laugh, but only in a nervous,
hysterical sort of a fashion; while at other times he would sit for
hours looking as black as night, with his heavy eyebrows knitted. Of
much that went on he remained wholly oblivious, for he grew extremely
absent-minded, and took to talking to himself. Only Blanche could awake
him to any semblance of life. His fits of depression and moodiness in
corners always meant either that he had not seen her for some while, or
that she had gone out without taking him with her, or that she had
omitted to caress him before departing. When in this condition, he
would refuse to say what he wanted--nor had he the least idea that he
was thus sulking and moping. Next, after remaining in this condition
for an hour or two (this I remarked on two occasions when Blanche had
gone out for the day--probably to see Albert), he would begin to look
about him, and to grow uneasy, and to hurry about with an air as though
he had suddenly remembered something, and must try and find it; after
which, not perceiving the object of his search, nor succeeding in
recalling what that object had been, he would as suddenly relapse into
oblivion, and continue so until the reappearance of Blanche--merry,
wanton, half-dressed, and laughing her strident laugh as she approached
to pet him, and even to kiss him (though the latter reward he seldom
received). Once, he was so overjoyed at her doing so that he burst into
tears. Even I myself was surprised.

From the first moment of his arrival in Paris, Blanche set herself to
plead with me on his behalf; and at such times she even rose to heights
of eloquence--saying that it was for ME she had abandoned him, though
she had almost become his betrothed and promised to become so; that it
was for HER sake he had deserted his family; that, having been in his
service, I ought to remember the fact, and to feel ashamed. To all this
I would say nothing, however much she chattered on; until at length I
would burst out laughing, and the incident would come to an end (at
first, as I have said, she had thought me a fool, but since she had
come to deem me a man of sense and sensibility). In short, I had the
happiness of calling her better nature into play; for though, at first,
I had not deemed her so, she was, in reality, a kind-hearted woman
after her own fashion. "You are good and clever," she said to me
towards the finish, "and my one regret is that you are also so
wrong-headed. You will NEVER be a rich man!"

"Un vrai Russe--un Kalmuk" she usually called me.

Several times she sent me to give the General an airing in the streets,
even as she might have done with a lacquey and her spaniel; but, I
preferred to take him to the theatre, to the Bal Mabille, and to
restaurants. For this purpose she usually allowed me some money, though
the General had a little of his own, and enjoyed taking out his purse
before strangers. Once I had to use actual force to prevent him from
buying a phaeton at a price of seven hundred francs, after a vehicle
had caught his fancy in the Palais Royal as seeming to be a desirable
present for Blanche. What could SHE have done with a
seven-hundred-franc phaeton?--and the General possessed in the world
but a thousand francs! The origin even of those francs I could never
determine, but imagined them to have emanated from Mr. Astley--the more
so since the latter had paid the family's hotel bill. As for what view
the General took of myself, I think that he never divined the footing
on which I stood with Blanche. True, he had heard, in a dim sort of
way, that I had won a good deal of money; but more probably he supposed
me to be acting as secretary--or even as a kind of servant--to his
inamorata. At all events, he continued to address me, in his old
haughty style, as my superior. At times he even took it upon himself to
scold me. One morning in particular, he started to sneer at me over our
matutinal coffee. Though not a man prone to take offence, he suddenly,
and for some reason of which to this day I am ignorant, fell out with
me. Of course even he himself did not know the reason. To put things
shortly, he began a speech which had neither beginning nor ending, and
cried out, a batons rompus, that I was a boy whom he would soon put to
rights--and so forth, and so forth. Yet no one could understand what he
was saying, and at length Blanche exploded in a burst of laughter.
Finally something appeased him, and he was taken out for his walk. More
than once, however, I noticed that his depression was growing upon him;
that he seemed to be feeling the want of somebody or something; that,
despite Blanche's presence, he was missing some person in particular.
Twice, on these occasions, did he plunge into a conversation with me,
though he could not make himself intelligible, and only went on
rambling about the service, his late wife, his home, and his property.
Every now and then, also, some particular word would please him;
whereupon he would repeat it a hundred times in the day--even though
the word happened to express neither his thoughts nor his feelings.
Again, I would try to get him to talk about his children, but always he
cut me short in his old snappish way, and passed to another subject.
"Yes, yes--my children," was all that I could extract from him. "Yes,
you are right in what you have said about them." Only once did he
disclose his real feelings. That was when we were taking him to the
theatre, and suddenly he exclaimed: "My unfortunate children! Yes, sir,
they are unfortunate children." Once, too, when I chanced to mention
Polina, he grew quite bitter against her. "She is an ungrateful woman!"
he exclaimed. "She is a bad and ungrateful woman! She has broken up a
family. If there were laws here, I would have her impaled. Yes, I
would." As for De Griers, the General would not have his name
mentioned. "He has ruined me," he would say. "He has robbed me, and cut
my throat. For two years he was a perfect nightmare to me. For months
at a time he never left me in my dreams. Do not speak of him again."

It was now clear to me that Blanche and he were on the point of coming
to terms; yet, true to my usual custom, I said nothing. At length,
Blanche took the initiative in explaining matters. She did so a week
before we parted.

"Il a du chance," she prattled, "for the Grandmother is now REALLY ill,
and therefore, bound to die. Mr. Astley has just sent a telegram to say
so, and you will agree with me that the General is likely to be her
heir. Even if he should not be so, he will not come amiss, since, in
the first place, he has his pension, and, in the second place, he will
be content to live in a back room; whereas I shall be Madame General,
and get into a good circle of society" (she was always thinking of
this) "and become a Russian chatelaine. Yes, I shall have a mansion of
my own, and peasants, and a million of money at my back."

"But, suppose he should prove jealous? He might demand all sorts of
things, you know. Do you follow me?"

"Oh, dear no! How ridiculous that would be of him! Besides, I have
taken measures to prevent it. You need not be alarmed. That is to say,
I have induced him to sign notes of hand in Albert's name.
Consequently, at any time I could get him punished. Isn't he
ridiculous?"

"Very well, then. Marry him."

And, in truth, she did so--though the marriage was a family one only,
and involved no pomp or ceremony. In fact, she invited to the nuptials
none but Albert and a few other friends. Hortense, Cleopatre, and the
rest she kept firmly at a distance. As for the bridegroom, he took a
great interest in his new position. Blanche herself tied his tie, and
Blanche herself pomaded him--with the result that, in his frockcoat and
white waistcoat, he looked quite comme il faut.

"Il est, pourtant, TRES comme il faut," Blanche remarked when she
issued from his room, as though the idea that he was "TRES comme il
faut" had impressed even her. For myself, I had so little knowledge of
the minor details of the affair, and took part in it so much as a
supine spectator, that I have forgotten most of what passed on this
occasion. I only remember that Blanche and the Widow figured at it, not
as "de Cominges," but as "du Placet." Why they had hitherto been "de
Cominges" I do not know--I only know that this entirely satisfied the
General, that he liked the name "du Placet" even better than he had
liked the name "de Cominges." On the morning of the wedding, he paced
the salon in his gala attire and kept repeating to himself with an air
of great gravity and importance: "Mlle. Blanche du Placet! Mlle.
Blanche du Placet, du Placet!" He beamed with satisfaction as he did
so. Both in the church and at the wedding breakfast he remained not
only pleased and contented, but even proud. She too underwent a change,
for now she assumed an air of added dignity.

"I must behave altogether differently," she confided to me with a
serious air. "Yet, mark you, there is a tiresome circumstance of which
I had never before thought--which is, how best to pronounce my new
family name. Zagorianski, Zagozianski, Madame la Generale de Sago,
Madame la Generale de Fourteen Consonants--oh these infernal Russian
names! The LAST of them would be the best to use, don't you think?"

At length the time had come for us to part, and Blanche, the egregious
Blanche, shed real tears as she took her leave of me. "Tu etais bon
enfant" she said with a sob. "Je te croyais bete et tu en avais l'air,
but it suited you." Then, having given me a final handshake, she
exclaimed, "Attends!"; whereafter, running into her boudoir, she
brought me thence two thousand-franc notes. I could scarcely believe my
eyes! "They may come in handy for you," she explained, "for, though you
are a very learned tutor, you are a very stupid man. More than two
thousand francs, however, I am not going to give you, for the reason
that, if I did so, you would gamble them all away. Now good-bye. Nous
serons toujours bons amis, and if you win again, do not fail to come to
me, et tu seras heureux."

I myself had still five hundred francs left, as well as a watch worth a
thousand francs, a few diamond studs, and so on. Consequently, I could
subsist for quite a length of time without particularly bestirring
myself. Purposely I have taken up my abode where I am now partly to
pull myself together, and partly to wait for Mr. Astley, who, I have
learnt, will soon be here for a day or so on business. Yes, I know
that, and then--and then I shall go to Homburg. But to Roulettenberg I
shall not go until next year, for they say it is bad to try one's luck
twice in succession at a table. Moreover, Homburg is where the best
play is carried on.



XVII

It is a year and eight months since I last looked at these notes of
mine. I do so now only because, being overwhelmed with depression, I
wish to distract my mind by reading them through at random. I left them
off at the point where I was just going to Homburg. My God, with what a
light heart (comparatively speaking) did I write the concluding
lines!--though it may be not so much with a light heart, as with a
measure of self-confidence and unquenchable hope. At that time had I
any doubts of myself? Yet behold me now. Scarcely a year and a half
have passed, yet I am in a worse position than the meanest beggar. But
what is a beggar? A fig for beggary! I have ruined myself--that is all.
Nor is there anything with which I can compare myself; there is no
moral which it would be of any use for you to read to me. At the
present moment nothing could well be more incongruous than a moral. Oh,
you self-satisfied persons who, in your unctuous pride, are forever
ready to mouth your maxims--if only you knew how fully I myself
comprehend the sordidness of my present state, you would not trouble to
wag your tongues at me! What could you say to me that I do not already
know? Well, wherein lies my difficulty? It lies in the fact that by a
single turn of a roulette wheel everything for me, has become changed.
Yet, had things befallen otherwise, these moralists would have been
among the first (yes, I feel persuaded of it) to approach me with
friendly jests and congratulations. Yes, they would never have turned
from me as they are doing now! A fig for all of them! What am I? I am
zero--nothing. What shall I be tomorrow? I may be risen from the dead,
and have begun life anew. For still, I may discover the man in myself,
if only my manhood has not become utterly shattered.

I went, I say, to Homburg, but afterwards went also to Roulettenberg,
as well as to Spa and Baden; in which latter place, for a time, I acted
as valet to a certain rascal of a Privy Councillor, by name Heintze,
who until lately was also my master here. Yes, for five months I lived
my life with lacqueys! That was just after I had come out of
Roulettenberg prison, where I had lain for a small debt which I owed.
Out of that prison I was bailed by--by whom? By Mr. Astley? By Polina?
I do not know. At all events, the debt was paid to the tune of two
hundred thalers, and I sallied forth a free man. But what was I to do
with myself? In my dilemma I had recourse to this Heintze, who was a
young scapegrace, and the sort of man who could speak and write three
languages. At first I acted as his secretary, at a salary of thirty
gulden a month, but afterwards I became his lacquey, for the reason
that he could not afford to keep a secretary--only an unpaid servant. I
had nothing else to turn to, so I remained with him, and allowed myself
to become his flunkey. But by stinting myself in meat and drink I
saved, during my five months of service, some seventy gulden; and one
evening, when we were at Baden, I told him that I wished to resign my
post, and then hastened to betake myself to roulette.

Oh, how my heart beat as I did so! No, it was not the money that I
valued--what I wanted was to make all this mob of Heintzes, hotel
proprietors, and fine ladies of Baden talk about me, recount my story,
wonder at me, extol my doings, and worship my winnings. True, these
were childish fancies and aspirations, but who knows but that I might
meet Polina, and be able to tell her everything, and see her look of
surprise at the fact that I had overcome so many adverse strokes of
fortune. No, I had no desire for money for its own sake, for I was
perfectly well aware that I should only squander it upon some new
Blanche, and spend another three weeks in Paris after buying a pair of
horses which had cost sixteen thousand francs. No, I never believed
myself to be a hoarder; in fact, I knew only too well that I was a
spendthrift. And already, with a sort of fear, a sort of sinking in my
heart, I could hear the cries of the croupiers--"Trente et un, rouge,
impair et passe," "Quarte, noir, pair et manque."  How greedily I gazed
upon the gaming-table, with its scattered louis d'or, ten-gulden
pieces, and thalers; upon the streams of gold as they issued from the
croupier's hands, and piled themselves up into heaps of gold
scintillating as fire; upon the ell--long rolls of silver lying around
the croupier. Even at a distance of two rooms I could hear the chink of
that money--so much so that I nearly fell into convulsions.

Ah, the evening when I took those seventy gulden to the gaming table
was a memorable one for me. I began by staking ten gulden upon passe.
For passe I had always had a sort of predilection, yet I lost my stake
upon it. This left me with sixty gulden in silver. After a moment's
thought I selected zero--beginning by staking five gulden at a time.
Twice I lost, but the third round suddenly brought up the desired coup.
I could almost have died with joy as I received my one hundred and
seventy-five gulden. Indeed, I have been less pleased when, in former
times, I have won a hundred thousand gulden. Losing no time, I staked
another hundred gulden upon the red, and won; two hundred upon the red,
and won; four hundred upon the black, and won; eight hundred upon
manque, and won. Thus, with the addition of the remainder of my
original capital, I found myself possessed, within five minutes, of
seventeen hundred gulden.  Ah, at such moments one forgets both oneself
and one's former failures! This I had gained by risking my very life. I
had dared so to risk, and behold, again I was a member of mankind!

I went and hired a room, I shut myself up in it, and sat counting my
money until three o'clock in the morning. To think that when I awoke on
the morrow, I was no lacquey! I decided to leave at once for Homburg.
There I should neither have to serve as a footman nor to lie in prison.
Half an hour before starting, I went and ventured a couple of
stakes--no more; with the result that, in all, I lost fifteen hundred
florins. Nevertheless, I proceeded to Homburg, and have now been there
for a month.

Of course, I am living in constant trepidation, playing for the
smallest of stakes, and always looking out for something--calculating,
standing whole days by the gaming-tables to watch the play--even seeing
that play in my dreams--yet seeming, the while, to be in some way
stiffening, to be growing caked, as it were, in mire. But I must
conclude my notes, which I finish under the impression of a recent
encounter with Mr. Astley. I had not seen him since we parted at
Roulettenberg, and now we met quite by accident. At the time I was
walking in the public gardens, and meditating upon the fact that not
only had I still some fifty gulden in my possession, but also I had
fully paid up my hotel bill three days ago. Consequently, I was in a
position to try my luck again at roulette; and if I won anything I
should be able to continue my play, whereas, if I lost what I now
possessed, I should once more have to accept a lacquey's place,
provided that, in the alternative, I failed to discover a Russian
family which stood in need of a tutor. Plunged in these reflections, I
started on my daily walk through the Park and forest towards a
neighbouring principality. Sometimes, on such occasions, I spent four
hours on the way, and would return to Homburg tired and hungry; but, on
this particular occasion, I had scarcely left the gardens for the Park
when I caught sight of Astley seated on a bench. As soon as he
perceived me, he called me by name, and I went and sat down beside him;
but, on noticing that he seemed a little stiff in his manner, I
hastened to moderate the expression of joy which the sight of him had
called forth.

"YOU here?" he said. "Well, I had an idea that I should meet you. Do
not trouble to tell me anything, for I know all--yes, all. In fact,
your whole life during the past twenty months lies within my knowledge."

"How closely you watch the doings of your old friends!" I replied.
"That does you infinite credit. But stop a moment. You have reminded me
of something. Was it you who bailed me out of Roulettenberg prison when
I was lying there for a debt of two hundred gulden? SOMEONE did so."

"Oh dear no!--though I knew all the time that you were lying there."

"Perhaps you could tell me who DID bail me out?"

"No; I am afraid I could not."

"What a strange thing! For I know no Russians at all here, so it cannot
have been a Russian who befriended me. In Russia we Orthodox folk DO go
bail for one another, but in this case I thought it must have been done
by some English stranger who was not conversant with the ways of the
country."

Mr. Astley seemed to listen to me with a sort of surprise. Evidently he
had expected to see me looking more crushed and broken than I was.

"Well," he said--not very pleasantly, "I am none the less glad to find
that you retain your old independence of spirit, as well as your
buoyancy."

"Which means that you are vexed at not having found me more abased and
humiliated than I am?" I retorted with a smile.

Astley was not quick to understand this, but presently did so and
laughed.

"Your remarks please me as they always did," he continued. "In those
words I see the clever, triumphant, and, above all things, cynical
friend of former days. Only Russians have the faculty of combining
within themselves so many opposite qualities. Yes, most men love to see
their best friend in abasement; for generally it is on such abasement
that friendship is founded. All thinking persons know that ancient
truth. Yet, on the present occasion, I assure you, I am sincerely glad
to see that you are NOT cast down. Tell me, are you never going to give
up gambling?"

"Damn the gambling! Yes, I should certainly have given it up, were it
not that--"

"That you are losing? I thought so. You need not tell me any more. I
know how things stand, for you have said that last in despair, and
therefore, truthfully. Have you no other employment than gambling?"

"No; none whatever."

Astley gave me a searching glance. At that time it was ages since I had
last looked at a paper or turned the pages of a book.

"You are growing blase," he said. "You have not only renounced life,
with its interests and social ties, but the duties of a citizen and a
man; you have not only renounced the friends whom I know you to have
had, and every aim in life but that of winning money; but you have also
renounced your memory. Though I can remember you in the strong, ardent
period of your life, I feel persuaded that you have now forgotten every
better feeling of that period--that your present dreams and aspirations
of subsistence do not rise above pair, impair rouge, noir, the twelve
middle numbers, and so forth."

"Enough, Mr. Astley!" I cried with some irritation--almost in anger.
"Kindly do not recall to me any more recollections, for I can remember
things for myself. Only for a time have I put them out of my head. Only
until I shall have rehabilitated myself, am I keeping my memory dulled.
When that hour shall come, you will see me arise from the dead."

"Then you will have to be here another ten years," he replied. "Should
I then be alive, I will remind you--here, on this very bench--of what I
have just said. In fact, I will bet you a wager that I shall do so."

"Say no more," I interrupted impatiently. "And to show you that I have
not wholly forgotten the past, may I enquire where Mlle. Polina is? If
it was not you who bailed me out of prison, it must have been she. Yet
never have I heard a word concerning her."

"No, I do not think it was she. At the present moment she is in
Switzerland, and you will do me a favour by ceasing to ask me these
questions about her." Astley said this with a firm, and even an angry,
air.

"Which means that she has dealt you a serious wound?" I burst out with
an involuntary sneer.

"Mlle. Polina," he continued, "Is the best of all possible living
beings; but, I repeat, that I shall thank you to cease questioning me
about her. You never really knew her, and her name on your lips is an
offence to my moral feeling."

"Indeed? On what subject, then, have I a better right to speak to you
than on this? With it are bound up all your recollections and mine.
However, do not be alarmed: I have no wish to probe too far into your
private, your secret affairs. My interest in Mlle. Polina does not
extend beyond her outward circumstances and surroundings. About them
you could tell me in two words."

"Well, on condition that the matter shall end there, I will tell you
that for a long time Mlle. Polina was ill, and still is so. My mother
and sister entertained her for a while at their home in the north of
England, and thereafter Mlle. Polina's grandmother (you remember the
mad old woman?) died, and left Mlle. Polina a personal legacy of seven
thousand pounds sterling. That was about six months ago, and now Mlle.
is travelling with my sister's family--my sister having since married.
Mlle.'s little brother and sister also benefited by the Grandmother's
will, and are now being educated in London. As for the General, he died
in Paris last month, of a stroke. Mlle. Blanche did well by him, for
she succeeded in having transferred to herself all that he received
from the Grandmother. That, I think, concludes all that I have to tell."

"And De Griers? Is he too travelling in Switzerland?"

"No; nor do I know where he is. Also I warn you once more that you had
better avoid such hints and ignoble suppositions; otherwise you will
assuredly have to reckon with me."

"What? In spite of our old friendship?"

"Yes, in spite of our old friendship."

"Then I beg your pardon a thousand times, Mr. Astley. I meant nothing
offensive to Mlle. Polina, for I have nothing of which to accuse her.
Moreover, the question of there being anything between this Frenchman
and this Russian lady is not one which you and I need discuss, nor even
attempt to understand."

"If," replied Astley, "you do not care to hear their names coupled
together, may I ask you what you mean by the expressions 'this
Frenchman,' 'this Russian lady,' and 'there being anything between
them'? Why do you call them so particularly a 'Frenchman' and a
'Russian lady'?"

"Ah, I see you are interested, Mr. Astley. But it is a long, long
story, and calls for a lengthy preface. At the same time, the question
is an important one, however ridiculous it may seem at the first
glance. A Frenchman, Mr. Astley, is merely a fine figure of a man. With
this you, as a Britisher, may not agree. With it I also, as a Russian,
may not agree--out of envy. Yet possibly our good ladies are of another
opinion. For instance, one may look upon Racine as a broken-down,
hobbledehoy, perfumed individual--one may even be unable to read him;
and I too may think him the same, as well as, in some respects, a
subject for ridicule. Yet about him, Mr. Astley, there is a certain
charm, and, above all things, he is a great poet--though one might like
to deny it. Yes, the Frenchman, the Parisian, as a national figure, was
in process of developing into a figure of elegance before we Russians
had even ceased to be bears. The Revolution bequeathed to the French
nobility its heritage, and now every whippersnapper of a Parisian may
possess manners, methods of expression, and even thoughts that are
above reproach in form, while all the time he himself may share in that
form neither in initiative nor in intellect nor in soul--his manners,
and the rest, having come to him through inheritance. Yes, taken by
himself, the Frenchman is frequently a fool of fools and a villain of
villains. Per contra, there is no one in the world more worthy of
confidence and respect than this young Russian lady. De Griers might so
mask his face and play a part as easily to overcome her heart, for he
has an imposing figure, Mr. Astley, and this young lady might easily
take that figure for his real self--for the natural form of his heart
and soul--instead of the mere cloak with which heredity has dowered
him. And even though it may offend you, I feel bound to say that the
majority also of English people are uncouth and unrefined, whereas we
Russian folk can recognise beauty wherever we see it, and are always
eager to cultivate the same. But to distinguish beauty of soul and
personal originality there is needed far more independence and freedom
than is possessed by our women, especially by our younger ladies. At
all events, they need more EXPERIENCE. For instance, this Mlle.
Polina--pardon me, but the name has passed my lips, and I cannot well
recall it--is taking a very long time to make up her mind to prefer you
to Monsieur de Griers. She may respect you, she may become your friend,
she may open out her heart to you; yet over that heart there will be
reigning that loathsome villain, that mean and petty usurer, De Griers.
This will be due to obstinacy and self-love--to the fact that De Griers
once appeared to her in the transfigured guise of a marquis, of a
disenchanted and ruined liberal who was doing his best to help her
family and the frivolous old General; and, although these transactions
of his have since been exposed, you will find that the exposure has
made no impression upon her mind. Only give her the De Griers of former
days, and she will ask of you no more. The more she may detest the
present De Griers, the more will she lament the De Griers of the
past--even though the latter never existed but in her own imagination.
You are a sugar refiner, Mr. Astley, are you not?"

"Yes, I belong to the well-known firm of Lovell and Co."

"Then see here. On the one hand, you are a sugar refiner, while, on the
other hand, you are an Apollo Belvedere. But the two characters do not
mix with one another. I, again, am not even a sugar refiner; I am a
mere roulette gambler who has also served as a lacquey. Of this fact
Mlle. Polina is probably well aware, since she appears to have an
excellent force of police at her disposal."

"You are saying this because you are feeling bitter," said Astley with
cold indifference. "Yet there is not the least originality in your
words."

"I agree. But therein lies the horror of it all--that, how trepidation,
playing ever mean and farcical my accusations may be, they are none the
less TRUE. But I am only wasting words."

"Yes, you are, for you are only talking nonsense!" exclaimed my
companion--his voice now trembling and his eyes flashing fire. "Are you
aware," he continued, "that wretched, ignoble, petty, unfortunate man
though you are, it was at HER request I came to Homburg, in order to
see you, and to have a long, serious talk with you, and to report to
her your feelings and thoughts and hopes--yes, and your recollections
of her, too?"

"Indeed? Is that really so?" I cried--the tears beginning to well from
my eyes. Never before had this happened.

"Yes, poor unfortunate," continued Astley. "She DID love you; and I may
tell you this now for the reason that now you are utterly lost. Even if
I were also to tell you that she still loves you, you would none the
less have to remain where you are. Yes, you have ruined yourself beyond
redemption. Once upon a time you had a certain amount of talent, and
you were of a lively disposition, and your good looks were not to be
despised. You might even have been useful to your country, which needs
men like you. Yet you remained here, and your life is now over. I am
not blaming you for this--in my view all Russians resemble you, or are
inclined to do so. If it is not roulette, then it is something else.
The exceptions are very rare. Nor are you the first to learn what a
taskmaster is yours. For roulette is not exclusively a Russian game.
Hitherto, you have honourably preferred to serve as a lacquey rather
than to act as a thief; but what the future may have in store for you I
tremble to think. Now good-bye. You are in want of money, I suppose?
Then take these ten louis d'or. More I shall not give you, for you
would only gamble it away. Take care of these coins, and farewell. Once
more, TAKE CARE of them."

"No, Mr. Astley. After all that has been said I--"

"TAKE CARE of them!" repeated my friend. "I am certain you are still a
gentleman, and therefore I give you the money as one gentleman may give
money to another. Also, if I could be certain that you would leave both
Homburg and the gaming-tables, and return to your own country, I would
give you a thousand pounds down to start life afresh; but, I give you
ten louis d'or instead of a thousand pounds for the reason that at the
present time a thousand pounds and ten louis d'or will be all the same
to you--you will lose the one as readily as you will the other. Take
the money, therefore, and good-bye."

"Yes, I WILL take it if at the same time you will embrace me."

"With pleasure."

So we parted--on terms of sincere affection.

      *      *      *      *      *

But he was wrong. If I was hard and undiscerning as regards Polina and
De Griers, HE was hard and undiscerning as regards Russian people
generally. Of myself I say nothing. Yet--yet words are only words. I
need to ACT. Above all things I need to think of Switzerland. Tomorrow,
tomorrow--Ah, but if only I could set things right tomorrow, and be
born again, and rise again from the dead! But no--I cannot. Yet I must
show her what I can do. Even if she should do no more than learn that I
can still play the man, it would be worth it. Today it is too late, but
TOMORROW...

Yet I have a presentiment that things can never be otherwise. I have
got fifteen louis d'or in my possession, although I began with fifteen
gulden. If I were to play carefully at the start--But no, no! Surely I
am not such a fool as that? Yet WHY should I not rise from the dead? I
should require at first but to go cautiously and patiently and the rest
would follow. I should require but to put a check upon my nature for
one hour, and my fortunes would be changed entirely. Yes, my nature is
my weak point. I have only to remember what happened to me some months
ago at Roulettenberg, before my final ruin. What a notable instance
that was of my capacity for resolution! On the occasion in question I
had lost everything--everything; yet, just as I was leaving the Casino,
I heard another gulden give a rattle in my pocket! "Perhaps I shall
need it for a meal," I thought to myself; but a hundred paces further
on, I changed my mind, and returned. That gulden I staked upon
manque--and there is something in the feeling that, though one is
alone, and in a foreign land, and far from one's own home and friends,
and ignorant of whence one's next meal is to come, one is nevertheless
staking one's very last coin! Well, I won the stake, and in twenty
minutes had left the Casino with a hundred and seventy gulden in my
pocket! That is a fact, and it shows what a last remaining gulden can
do.... But what if my heart had failed me, or I had shrunk from
making up my mind? ...

No: tomorrow all shall be ended!